Quantum Psi (c) is a discipline that combines the metaphorical use of quantum physics, quantum hypnosis, and alchemy to help people find inner harmony and experience non-local effects such as telepathy and synchronicity. One of the key concepts of Quantum Psi is overcoming the fascination that is created between the observer and the observed, also known as the observer-observed dyad, which refers to the fact that observation can influence the behavior of something according to the principles of quantum physics. To achieve this state, people must learn to overcome the fascination of the observer-observed dyad through mastery of the process of fascination, that is, observing without judgment. In this way, they can access the non-local effects of the universe and achieve a sense of unity with the world around them.
The concept is also related to quantum hypnosis which deconstructs limiting beliefs, mental blocks and anything that blocks us mentally from recovering the entirety of ourselves. In the process, we also integrate the so-called "luxmind (c)" by observing a light from a light bulb that blocks central vision and creates a state of mental block (think that even animals can get stuck by a light) by exploiting this block to insert ideas into the mind with a mantra-style system. Then, by closing the eyes and observing the residual image of the light, a fixation point is created and the hypnotic process continues without further speaking. This method is as if it opens the mind to lateral thinking since it blocks the central field. New ideas appear. There is certainly also an effect of the light that metaphorically is similar to an implied level as intended by Bohm that becomes explicit when it reaches the objects and reduces.
In addition to quantum physics and hypnosis, Quantum Psi (c) is also based on the principles of alchemy, an ancient spiritual practice that seeks to achieve transformation and enlightenment through the use of symbolic elements and processes. By exploring the four elements of fire, water, air and earth, and the three elements of sulfur, mercury and salt, Quantum Psi (c) helps people connect with themselves and achieve a state of harmony and balance. Each element is explored in its corresponding non-verbal in the human being, with sensory, muscular, postural and physical correspondences.
Ad esempio nelle percezioni interne i recettori della gravità e del tatto possono corrispondere all'elemento terra, quelli delle sensazioni interiori all'elemento acqua, quelli di pacini per le vibrazioni all'elemento aria e quelli calorici all'elemento fuoco. Quello che si vede è che alcune persone danno nella vita il vantaggio ad una percezione invece che all'altra. Saranno più nelle sensazioni interne (spesso respireranno basso e parlando utilizzano gesti con le palme in alto come a ricevere) oppure più nelle sensazioni tattili esterne (spesso avranno anche molto dialogo interno) oppure più attenti a stimolazioni di vibrazione (spesso sono tipi intuitivi che cercano un frisson interiore). Oppure respirazione ed energia in alto (tipi focosi ed indicativi con le mani). 


