If you end after, you must see it, and you see that the child normally does it: they do around, they touch everything, they try to get in contact, they feel. And so when you are grown, you say you have the feeling of everything that is around you. So instead, when you say something is real with you, you don't have to touch it; you see and you know, even already the sensation. So in reality, the sensation is the starting point, and even in the philogenesis, which means in the history of the senses, the first sense was the sensation. In the sense that we know for the hearing data, there's some movement inside the ear, and we even observe that the sense of sight comes from an unsigned moment when we use it. So we didn't divide too much today. The classroom that I would do now is just to answer questions with Kathy, and with the English and Spanish, there are just two people. So we will divide now. It's good to divide the classroom. Maybe we do some exercise just for French, English, and we will do about 15 minutes in the classroom. I will now divide the career Allah session one. I will do Alexander, Andrew, Andrea, Anthony, Azina, Christopher, and see Christopher. I will do a session for Christopher Elite, and okay because they speak Spanish, and we will do David. David doesn't speak that good Spanish. He speaks better English. Okay, at this point, I will put English, and I would do English David. I will put French. This is the best one. Differential in the group. This is the best, and I will just go to the French outside. They will stay with you, and I will speak with the theory I know from here. This session, I will close. These people can stay in the main room. Alexander, Andrew, okay, I will do just a session for the French now, so the French people are asking to go in the room that I will open. If I forgot some French, you will tell me, and I will put, okay? And you are with Kathy, okay? Somebody asked some questions regarding how we can effectively work with personality disorders as is usually multi-multi. This is very good. Uh, fires, yes, yes. This is uh, oh, there is a very good technique to work with personality disorders. There are two ways to work with these multiple personality disorders. One is crisis, and the second one is like working with the path center in the paths of the body. There is something that we can do in the advanced mountain here, and you enter into there. You could ask here the crisis, could the crisis also good to work with the past because it can let because when a person is blocked, this can also be expressed as parts. A person feels blocked, and so when we block in this way, it is good even mass metal detail wellness. May wrote a book, and he told somebody uses spirit day most gods, but it's very simple, it's energy. And so, in some way, he wanted to say that this concept of energy applies also to paths, law to pass. So there are two ways, one way is in this way, and the actor is practically with a series of regression where we enter into this sample personalities, and after we release, we can even mix for the even if we will see the complete system in advance. You can do a regression entering as a personality, work with this personality as a person, even if it is a past life, and do a crisis, and you will release, you will free it. This is the simplest way they use it in any culture. I should say that is why the crisis and the crisis and in another personality. And after any crisis is a technique that is practicing practically in every culture. The other application that somebody of you can have otherwise, I will do something with Andrea Heine. What would you say is the best method for self-crisis? Next election, we do serve guys, but they can anticipate to you. And next lesson, if you feel sometime some emotion yourself or something like this that tends to increase the distention, permit yourself to increase distention because the standard is to the upper parts, as we did the oculomotor blockage, as we do in the upper moctaw blockage, and permits to your body to move normally. The body is stuck, but maybe I have this hand that's stuck, but I understand that we...