solo chiedere cosa significa quando quando si fanno dei suoni questo che Marco Fanni tanto ciò che questo però lo vediamo magari un po più tardi perché sennò mischiamo troppe cose no perché non lo dico da ve ne parliamo pescioni magari lo quando arriviamo al punto giusto tutto il trono con pochino sicuramente allora andiamo allo sciatore manuela sì ciao ti volevo chiedere perché questa cosa mi interessa fatti molte persone mi trovo in tram i clienti anche con la radio mi trovo questi appunto qua cioè che magari fanno delle cose spirituali delle cose e ritrovo proprio quello di cui tu hai parlato fino adesso cioè proprio magia fondamentalmente amare azione trovo tutte queste questi soprattutto vanno sempre sul settore di soldi e volevo chiedere ma queste persone usano molto gli occhi sì perché mi ricordo di mia nonna che mi diceva quando incroci uno zingaro non . English Text : `` No , in the end , when I said ‘ stop , ’ I see you know what Adriana did spontaneously without suggestion ? Adriana , because that movie is something that has stayed with many , it was something that somehow marked them . Okay , I did n't understand why , if this is the brain and therefore the nationality is lowered , then practically it 's 100 % behind the wheel and the other is as if it were a process 1 , that is , reciting a part , saying it perfectly . Yes , but there are situations in life where these things come into play , think about those who enter the Big Brother house , as soon as they set foot in it , all the emotions come much stronger , events are exaggerated , maybe more genuine than at the beginning when it was truly an experiment . And so , this also happens when , for example , you go on a spiritual retreat with a group of people . Unfortunately , there are certain associations that take advantage of this group hypnosis that is created . Arianna , based on what Giacomo said , however , there are also gypsies… Okay , at level 10 in certain places , those are techniques of confusion , of mental tilt , which are completely different from real robberies with those techniques . It 's wrong to call them robberies . When I remember some videos I 've seen of the person who works at the post office who maybe delivers two or three thousand euros , the realization of what they did hits them very quickly . First of all , when the thief takes the money , he usually worries about running away as fast as possible because it 's something that immediately makes the person realize that they have done something beyond their will , but it 's much more similar to a state of mental shock . Have you ever heard someone say , `` They found Luigi 's uncle at various stations in a confused state , and they are from Milan ? '' It 's much more similar to that kind of state , so it 's something different , it 's a tilt of conscience , of mental criticism , and it always happens very quickly . I remember an American guy who had developed a very fast technique with quick touches , then he went around the eyes , then touched the back , etc . He had developed a lot of confusion , etc . He also asked the person 's name with fast touches , and they could n't remember it , and you could see that they were in a confused state . But all this is not at all interesting from our point of view because these states not only have positive effects , but they also do n't leave a positive feeling for the person when they return to their consciousness . But I asked this as a defense mechanism and to understand what happens when the Gypsies arrive , then you go to the bank to leave the money , and you go for the ideal of not looking them in the eyes and not paying attention to them . There are a lot of people who say , `` Yes , it 's true , '' but many times these types of scams involve other things , too . For example , when someone tells you that his/her nephew told him/her that he/she is an old friend when he/she was young , and this elderly person needed money , and they went spontaneously , but it was n't true . But what matters here is that you gain the person 's trust , and then if you have bad intentions , you can act on them very well , and even use hypnosis . You are acting in bad faith if you have a fake on the other side . So , absolutely defend yourself , the only thing is to ignore them , simply because then everything is always very strange , and there is always a catch when they pull these types of scams at the bar . Then there is the rest , that is , that other thing , but it 's not like those types of confusion are used to create a tilt , not a bypass . Okay , thank you . It seems that Mariangela has a question . She says yes , the Thyssen Tonti . Mariangela , can you hear me now ? What comes to mind is the case of the `` Sette '' and the mass murders . In that case , there was a talk of hypnosis , I mean the Fantoni and the Sette , there are already many elements present , even chemical ones , or should I say they also take drugs , for example , a technique that