THE WAY OF
THE HU N
THE QUANTUM
PSYCHOLOGY NOTEBOOKS
VOLUME III
BEYOND
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
THE AUTHOR
Stephen H. Wolinsky, Ph.D., began his clinical practice in Los Angeles, California in 1974. A Gestalt and Reichian therapist and trainer, he led workshops in Southern California. He was also trained in Classical Hypnosis, Psychosynthesis, Psychodrama/Psychomotor, and Transactional Analysis. In 1977 he journeyed to India, where he lived for almost six years studying meditation. He moved to New Mexico in 1982 to resume a clinical practice. There he began to train therapists in Ericksonian Hypnosis and family therapy. Dr. Wolinsky also conducted year-long trainings entitled: Integrating Hypnosis with Psychotherapy, and Integrating Hypnosis with Family Therapy. Dr. Wolinsky is the author of Trances People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychology", Quantum Consciousness: The Guide to Experiencing Quantum Psychology®, The Tao of Chaos: Quantum Consciousness Volume II, The Dark Side of the Inner Child (Bramble Books) and Hearts on Fire: The Roots of Quantum Psychology. He is the founder of Quantum Psychology"'. Dr. Wolinsky presently resides in Capitola, California. He can be reached for workshop information by calling (831) 464-0564 or by FAX at (831) 479-8233.
  
-71117"r---
DEDICATION
To the memory of my teacher, Guru and Guiding Light, Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj, the grandfather of Quantum Psychology, the ultimate deprogrammer, and the most confrontive teacher I have ever encountered.
To the memory of that confrontation which forced me to look at what
I had not looked at, confront what I did not know I needed to confront, question what I did not know I needed to question, and let go of that which I did not know I was holding on to.
With love and gratitude for facing-off with me, infecting me with the virus of enquiry which destroys everything in its path including the enquirer. For showing the ultimate irreverence for Identities and concepts which I thought were me and mine, and the ultimate reverence for THAT ONE SUBSTANCE and BEYOND.
To the memory of Bagawan Nityananda whose appearance from the NAMELESS ABSOLUTE changed the course of "my" life.
To Shirdi Sai Baba who showed me the NAMELESS ABSOLUTE which "I" at first could not handle or understand. And who 19 years later showed "me" the meaning of his words "I give them what they want, so that they will want what I have to give."
To the Buddha, and the disappearance of the "I".
________________
uantum Psychology is an extension and continuation of
Q.,      
Nisargadatta Maharaj—i.e., Advaita Vedanta—and it has several premises which form its basic core:
AdvaitaVedanta
There is only THAT ONE SUBSTANCENeti-Neti
not two or more substances(Sanskrit for
Not This-Not This)
SUMMARY OF NISARGADATTA MAHARAJ
1 There is only ONE SUBSTANCE.
2. What you khow about yourself came from outside of you, therefore discard it.
3. Question everything, do not believe anything.
4. In order to find out who you are, you must first find out who you are not.
5. In order to let go of something, you must first know what it is.
6. The experiences is contained within the experience itself.
7. Anything you think you are—you are NOT.
8. Hold onto the I AM, let go of everything else.
9. Anything you know about you cannot be.
THESE NINE PRINCIPLES FORM THE CORE OF
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
DEDICATION
CHAPTER I:
ESSENCE
CHAPTER II:
1AM
CHAPTER III:
THE COLLECTIVE UNCONSCIOUS:
THE ARCHETYPICAL DIMENSION81
CHAPTER IV:
THE NOT-14143
CHAPTER V:
THE VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS .. 195
CHAPTER VI:
THE NAMELESS ABSOLUTE249
CHAPTER VII: BEYOND273
SPECIAL SECTION: ENQUIRE277
APPENDIX 1:
ON CAUSE AND EFFECT409
APPENDIX H:
VISHNU'S DEMON415
________________
APPENDIX III:
THE WAY OF THE TANTRIC423
REFERENCES 435
  
From the point of view of the False Core-False Self the EMPTINESS within the physical body is mistakenly perceived and labeled as empty or something bad, as in a lack
When ESSENCE is realized the experience of the Essential qualities which have no label or associational network like love, spaciousness, bliss, peace, joy, compassion and observation with no object arise and are stabilized within awareness itself.
________________
CHAPTER 1
ESSENCE
"ESSENCE is what you were born with, personality is what you acquire."
G. I. Gurdjieff
n Quantum Psychology, multi-dimensional awareness at five di-  
mensions of manifestation means being aware of the external
world as well as the thinking and emotional dimensions while also being aware of your physical body without losing awareness of ESSENCE. ESSENCE initially appears and is (mis)perceived and hence (mis)labeled as an empty lack within the physical body. But once the labels (False Core-False Self) are removed, it is actually full of Essential qualities (love with no object, peace, compassion, unity, observation with no object, spaciousness, etc.).
In Quantum Psychology, ESSENCE is the Fifth Dimension of awareness, the space around which the physical body is organized.' ESSENCE has often been referred to as an "individual soul." This is a mistake. ESSENCE is actually a condensation of the ONE GREAT SOUL or VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. In other words, there is no separate individual soul, rather just one soul.'
The (rnis)perceived, (mis)labeled space is viewed as empty as in a lack when actually unlabeled it is pure spaciousness. See The Tao of Chaos  
In India, a person who is aware of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE or THAT ONE SOUL is called a Mahatma: maha meaning great and atma meaning soul. It should also be noted that Gautma the Buddha's realization led him to and beyond the Hindu Yoga experience of transmigration, (a separate individual soul or atma) which incarnates again and again.
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
To best explain this, it can be said that ESSENCE carries with it a condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, and with that condensation. the "characteristics" of that particular "piece" of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS with its memories and consciousnesses, etc. We might "think" or imagine that an "individual" soul exists at the level of ESSENCE, but to go beyond we must realize that at the level of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, there is no "individual soul" only the BIG EMPTINESS or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.
To illustrate, imagine ice cubes placed in a bathatub as made of the same substance as the water in the tub. In the same way, water (EMPTINESS) in a bath tub could become solid (ice) and thin-out to become water in different areas within the tub. It could then be said that the ice cubes contain only the characteristics that were contained within that "piece" or "section" of condensed water (ice).
The VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS appears as condensed EMPTINESS from the point of view of an "I" (which is condensed EMPTINESS too) and is mistakenly called the individual soul. But according to Buddha, "There is no individual soul which transmigrates (incarnates) from lifetime to lifetime." This realization is what differentiates Hinduism from Buddhism.
ESSENCE is the last "state" that has "qualities" that can somehow be termed "individual." As was previously mentioned, an infant might have energetic-genetic proclivity toward a False Core. But infants are fairly "unconditioned" and so they are very close to ESSENCE. If you look in the unconditioned eyes of newborn babies, they seem to express a sense of ESSENCE. This is why people coo and ah around babies—their being in ESSENCE evokes the open heartedness of another's ESSENCE.
When the realization of the separation between mother and infant occurs, ESSENCE is blamed and the False Core label is placed upon it (see Volume II). (Mis)labeled ESSENCE is then perceived as being a problem. It should be noted that the (mis)labeled spaciousness of ESSENCE becomes empty (as in a lack), and can mis-
2 Chapter 1
takenly be seen as the reason for what has been termed "existential pain."'
Existential pain (often described as emptiness within the physical body) is labeled as the "meaninglessness," or "aloneness" etc., of life. The seeking of meaning by people is actually the False Self's attempt to overcome this False (mis)label of emptiness (as in a lack) which is placed on the spaciousness of ESSENCE. It can also be said that labels placed on ESSENCE subsequently become the alleged Archetype known as the shadow (see Chapter 3, "The Collective Unconsciousness"). For now, it can be said that all the things you do not want to know because they are associated with the shock of the Realization of Separation are blamed on the (mis)labeled (mis)perceived BIG EMPTINESS which is now emptiness (as in a lack) (which is not ESSENCE). They are placed "in," "on," or hidden within the (mis)perceived emptiness (as in a lack) which, though it is not ESSENCE is perceived as ESSENCE.
This makes ESSENCE appear as the repository and the cause for all problems. For this reason, the False Core Driver (the label) and Identities are seen as I or "me" and ESSENCE, I AM, the VOID, etc., as "Not me" (to be discussed later). The "existential crisis" (the emptiness and meaningless of life) is a misnomer. It only describes the (mis)labeling placed by this (mis)perception onto ESSENCE. Simply stated, unlabeled EMPTINESS is spaciousness and an Essential quality of ESSENCE. When this Essential quality is labeled as "bad," like depression, for example, this creates an existential crisis which, in turn, leads to the desire (and problem) of organizing (giving a reason for) the chaos of the shock of the Realization of Separation and the narcissistic wound. The reason you do not experience your ESSENCE is because the label placed on it and the Essential quality of pure spaciousness are fused with your False Core. In other words, your ESSENCE is labeled as your False Core and the reason why there was a separation from the mother which eventually is trancefered onto everyone else, including the world and God.
When we say it is the reason, actually it is blamed and then remains unknown that: it is the label placed on the SPACIOUSNESS of ESSENCE which then causes it to be (mis)perceived as emptiness as in a lack. Still ESSENCE is who they are essentially. Quantum Psychology sees Jung's Archetypical Shadow as not an Archetype at all, but rather as resisted parts of the id, which is then spiritualized during the creation of the persona (to be discussed later).  
3
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
ESSENTIAL QUALITIES
ESSENCE contains Essential qualities like love'with no object, observation with no object, spaciousness, compassion, peace, freedom, etc. Beyond all qualities is the no state state or I AM (see next chapter). The problem is that, as the physical body organizes around the pure spaciousness of ESSENCE, the awareness of ESSENCE and the I AM diminishes as identities are formed to aid in the survival of the body . Observers, too, are formed to enable the physical body to survive (see Tao of Chaos). With the loss of the Essential qualities of ESSENCE, you lose the access to "your deepest self." The False Core-False Self and identities attempt unsuccessfully to capture, externally (i.e., in the external dimension) what ESSENCE is and contains—and which you already are. Metaphorically speaking, the False Self identities face outward looking for things such as love (or fill in the blank) from the external dimension. For this reason, the False Self and its identities are doomed to failure because they are collapsing dimensions. These identities are trying to get from the external dimension that which is contained within the Essential dimension. In other words, they are searching for Essential qualities like unconditional love in the external dimension or compassion in the thinking or emotional dimension. Other dimensions—thinking, emotional, etc.—cannot experience ESSENCE since this is not their function. Only ESSENCE can experience Essential Qualities. But ESSENCE, along with these essentiabqualities, is oftentimes "outside" of the awareness of the other dimensions. Hopelessly, the False Self tries to heal the False Core. It is only when the False Core-False Self is dismantled that ESSENCE is revealed and stabilized. To demonstrate the power of the False Core and its fusion with the ESSENCE a demonstration is provided below.
ESSENCE AND THE FALSE CORE
ESSENCE and the False Core are often fused together. To handle this, use the six-step de-fusion process.
Jill:I feel this dark, emptiness inside and I feel alone.
________________
Chapter I
Therapeutic Note  
Notice how she immediately fuses and labels the emptiness with the False Core Driver of "I am alone."
Wolinsky:If the dark empty space is fused with alone, what
gets created?
Jill:Terrible pain.
Wolinksy:What was assumed, decided or believed that got
you to creating that?
Jill:emptiness is painful.
Wolinsky:If this dark, empty space is fused with and equals
"I am alone," what does not occur?
Jill:Not creating the opportunity to experience what
is. I'm not creating that there is nothing to create.
Wolinsky:Okay. Now, go to the dark, empty space prior to
the false conclusion of "I am alone" and describe that experience.
Jill:It's just quiet, vast, peaceful and it's still. It's very
rich and full but in an undefined way. It goes on forever. I mean it's endless.
Therapeutic Note
If we enter into the pure "EMPTINESS" or spaciousness prior to the False Core; ESSENCE, we go beyond the False Core Driver's label and can even pop into the awareness of the VOID itself (see Chapter, The NOT-I-D.
Wolinsky:Can you say I go on forever, I'm endless.
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter 1
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Therapeutic Note  
Here I want her to "own" her ESSENCE and the awareness of the VOID.
Jill:I, as consciousness, can go on forever, I'm end-
less.
Wolinsky:Do you experience that right now?
Jill:Yeah, but not as Jill.
Wolinsky:Okay. Can you say Jill is finite but I go on for-
ever?
Therapeutic Note
Here we were differentiating the dimensions. Jill (body-mind, etc.) from (ESSENCE-I AM, NOT-I-I, etc.). Next, we are now going to trace the steps backward explicitly having her do them knowingly with awareness. For example, first she decided the empty space means alone. Next she decided this is who she is.
Jill:Jill is finite, but I go on forever. That is it.
Wolinsky:Now, notice this spaciousness and now conclude
that this experience means I am empty, I am alone. Now, decide that this is who I am. How are you feeling now?
Jill:Well, I feel very separate, I feel very defined, I
feel very distinct and very alone and very scared and frozen.
Wolinsky:So go into that experience now and then inten-
tionally conclude that means you are alone and
notice all the feelings that occur when you con-
clude that this experience means that you are alone.
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Jill:Yeah, it's like a loving presence. I'm using that
word again but there's like a presence,'a fullness, a richness, a wholeness, a vastness, a completeness, an expansiveness, never endingness. It just is.
Wolinsky:Stay there. Anything you would like to say?  
Jill:
BEYOND THE FALSE CORE INTO ESSENCE
This exercise leads us through the False Core and moving beyond into ESSENCE.
YOUR ESSENTIAL CORE
Essential Dimension Exercise #1
Group Exercise: Possible format for rotating group leader Eyes closed.
Step 1:Go into your False Core.
Step 2:Notice the difference between you and your False Core.
Step 3:Notice the size and shape of your False Core. (You can
do this by stepping out of your False Core.)
Step 4:Take a moment to notice the different chains of associa-
tions that are associated with the False Core. (For example, if your False Core is "I am inadequate," then notice all of the different chains of associations that are associated with it.)
Step 5:Notice how much energy and attention is tied up in the
False Core-False Self.
Step 6:Notice that it is this energy that pulls your attention into
it, like a magnet.
Step 7:Notice the BIG EMPTINESS that your False Core is
floating in.
Step 8:Ask your False Core (and allow it to answer), "What is
it that you are seeking more then anything else in the
8
Chapter 1
world." (Now, you may not get a quick response but I want you to stay with it for a little while. Get a sense of what your False Core is really seeking.)
  
When you get a sense of what that False Core is seeking more than anything else in the world, experience that quality of ESSENCE. For example, if your False Core is seeking peace, experience the peace.)`
  
Notice what, if anything, happens to your False Core as you go into this essential experience.
From inside your ESSENCE, notice the size and shape of your False Core, as well as the BIG EMPTINESS the False Core is floating in. From inside your ESSENCE, notice the intensity of the False Core and the associational chains that it contains.
Have the False Core and its associations turn around so that they can know that what they were seeking is in ESSENCE.
Take the label off of the False Core and have it as energy, and from inside ESSENCE, notice that the energy and the BIG EMPTINESS that it is floating in are made of the same substance.
  
Feel that essential quality.
Split your awareness in three ways: one-third in ESSENCE; one-third just noticing what, if anything, arises; and when you open your eyes in a moment, one-third in the room. (Whenever you are ready, open your eyes.)
Essential Dimension Exercise #2
See Essence in everyone
Step I:Experience the spaciousness inside your physical body
(i.e., ESSENCE).
Step II:Being "there." Experience another's spaciousness within
their body.
Step III:Experience the spaciousness of your ESSENCE and
the spaciousness of their ESSENCE as being made of the same substance
'See, The Tao of Chaos: Quantum consciousness, Volume IL  
9
  
  
the Human Beyond Quantum Psychology
STABILIZING YOUR AWARENESS OF ESSENCE
e awareness of ESSENCE cannot stabilize as lOng as there are lies (i.e.„ unacknowledged material within Identities). For example, if my father beat me up when I was a kid and I say to myself, "He was a wonderful dad," that's a lie have to acknowledge and accept before the awareness of ESSENCE can become stabilized. If I do not, the resisted experience will pop up again and again, and pull awareness out of ESSENCE-I AM, etc., and put it back in the False Core-False Self. Lies cover things up and that takes energy. It is the loss of energy which drains your awareness level and "steals" awareness from ESSENCE. Things have to be acknowledged in order to have a stable, uninterrupted awareness of the Essential dimensions. The lies you tell yourself will pull your awareness away from ESSENCE, just as the external context (dimension) pulls up your "Uncooked Seeds."
Nisargadatta Maharaj said,
________________
Chapter 1
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Notice your False Core, do not believe it.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
ESSENCE is your Essential Core.
DEMONSTRATION #1
"How To" WORK WITH THIS EXERCISE
STUDENT RESPONSES
Ellen:I am having a problem doing this.
Wolinsky:So where in your body, do you experience your
False Core?
  
In order to let go of something, you must first know what it is  Anything you do not know you become a slave of.
Quantum Psychology says
In order to let go of something, you must first be "willing" to have it, and that lies are the fertilizer (shit) that keeps the uncooked seeds sprouting.
Recently, a Gurdjieff student said that Gurdjieff believed, "You have to grow your ESSENCE." Quantum Psychology views this as a mistranslation and suggests Gurdjieff meant "you have to grow the awareness of ESSENCE  
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Every time you have a concept which you believe, the awareness of ESSENCE gets dampened.
Chapter 1                
and notice the BIG EMPTINESS that the False Core is floating in. Experience the spaciousness while you see the False Core as energy and the BIG EMPTINESS it is floating in as made of the same substance.
Uh-huh.
Okay. So in a moment, I will ask you to open your eyes and split your awareness three ways, having at least half your awareness in the Essential Core of ESSENCE and a part just noticing what, if anything, might pop up and another part of awareness is just letting your eyes open and see the room.
How are you doing?
I feel this space of my Essential Core. It is amazing.
DEMONSTRATION #2
I am also having a problem with this.
Notice your False Core. And notice all the energy which that False Core has. Notice the different chains of association that come off the False Core. Now, notice the BIG EMPTINESS the False Core is floating in. Now, ask the False Core, "What is it that you are seeking more than anything else in the world." What does it say?
It disappeared.
Okay, let's stay with that. So what I am going to ask you to do as we go on is to pay attention to the experience that emerges rather then doing any figuring out.
  
  
Just notice what emerges as we continue. So now if it disappeared, what would that feellike?        
I just get this peachy pink color. What does that feel like?
It feels okay.
So ask the False Core, what is it that you seek by disappearance. If it were to disappear and be peachy, what would that feel like?
Nothing.  
And what does that feel like? Notice your experience that is emerging. What does that nothing feel like?
It feels free, light.
Now, feel the free and light. Now, look at me. Feel the free and light. From the free and light, how does the False Core seem to you now?
It is gone. This is different. I feel free, light and present. This feels more Essential somehow.  
DEMONSTRATION EXAMPLE #3
I am having a hard time "getting" ESSENCE.  
Notice the False Core. As you notice the False Core, ask the False Core and let it answer. "What is it that you are seeking more than anything else in the world?"
  
  
  
Wolinsky:And so, if it felt acceptance, what would that feel
like?
Ted:Love.
Wolinsky:And if you felt love what would that feel like?
What is your experience like right now?
Ted:I am love.
DEMONSTRATION #4
Student:Can you do the Essential Core part with me?
Wolinsky:What is your False Core seeking more then any-
thing else in the world?
Student:Well, the first thing that came up was love and
then you said to stay with it, it was appreciation.
________________
DEMONSTRATION #5
  
Alice:When I do this, I can feel a flow of ESSENCE
but I hold onto the False Core, too.
Wolinsky:Get a sense of the flow for right now. Notice the
BIG EMPTY SPACE. And notice all the chains that get associated with that in your life. Notice the size and shape of the empty space and all of its chains. Ask the EMPTY SPACE which is fused with aloneness, "What are you seeking more than anything else in the world?"
Alice:It says love.
  
  

  
Therapeutic Note    
Here we are trying to get as NON-VERBAL as possible by moving beyond her concept of love since love was fused with alone.
Alice:It's like this wavy feeling. It's like I'm just trying
to show what it feels like.
Wolinsky:How does the False Core seem to you from inside
that wavy?
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology Alice:Pretty insignificant.  
Wolinsky:So if you notice the BIG EMPTINESS the False
Core is floating in and the False Core and if you took the label off of it and saw the EMPTINESS and the False Core, as the same substance, notice what happens as you continue to feel that waviness now. Have 80% of your attention in that waviness. About 10% noticing if anything pops up and about 10% have here when you open your eyes.
Student:Thank you. That's great.
THE ESSENTIAL CORE
The Essential Core is what is "you" beyond your False Core-False Self and your psychology. It is very pure, hence, the word "Essential." During the shock of the Realization of Separation, the misnamed, (mis)labeled and (mis)perceived quality of ESSENCE called spaciousness is labeled emptiness, (as in a lack) and is blamed. In this way you believe that you have no core, no Essential Core, and that you are empty (as in a lack). You then adapt or take on a False Core which you know is False, but at least you have a core. Even if it is False it is better than nothing—in other words, being without a core. In this way, you develop a False Self to compensate for the compensation (False Core) which is actually a compensation for the (mis)labeled essential quality of spaciousness which is labeled as emptiness (as in a lack).
Then you wonder why you cannot find yourself. . . .
The essential qualities of ESSENCE are contained within your Essential Core. The I AM (see the next chapter) is the next touchstone as "you move toward" the underlying unity as an experience which is the NOT In Quantum Psychology, the first step of the sequences is getting grounded in your body. Then, getting that your body is made up of the same substance as everything else. But if you are not first grounded in the experience that your body is the same substance as everything else, you will go in and out of the aware-
Chapter 1
ness of the "experience" of the underlying unity or "NOT-I-F and your awareness will not "get" stabilized.
Soon the NOT-I-I's awareness of unity consciousness will only be a memory. When this occurs, new belief systems and philosophies spring up into being. One day when I was in India, "I" experienced my arm as being made of the same substance as a tree. "I" realized that my thoughts were made of the same substance as the earth beneath me. But this experience did not remain stabilized.
At first your identities are foreground while ESSENCE-I AM, etc., are very much in the background. At some point, this shifts and ESSENCE-I AM, etc., moves forward while the fixated awareness of the False Core loosens and recedes. When this happens, you lose interest in and go beyond "your" psychology which you soon realize is simply a lens by which the imagined self and world were viewed. At this point, the False Core Driver and False Core Compensator move into the background or just disappear. Finally, THAT ONE SUBSTANCE and the "NOT-I-I" are clearer and are now foreground, and THAT is what "you" are living in.
GUIDED EXERCISE: YOUR ESSENTIAL CORE
Eyes closed.
Step I:
Step 2:
Step 3:
Step 4:
Step 5:
Step 6:
	Go into your False Core.
Knowingly, consciously and intentionally, believe your False Core.
Intentionally chose for it to be there.
Notice its size and shape and all the chains of associations.
Notice how much energy your False Core has.
Ask your False Core, "What are you seeking more than anything else in the world'?" As you get an answer to that, notice what experience emerges as you continue to ask yourself, "If I felt that, what would that feel like?" Continue to ask that until you get a sense or an experience of something emerging that is essential, and sit in
	

1819
  

Ellen: Wolinsky: Ellen: Wolinsky:
	In my chest.
Do you feel that right now? Yeah.
You can do this eyes opened or eyes closed. Just nod your head to let me know when what I ask to do is done. Notice the size and shape of your False Core and get a sense of the amount of energy that False Core contains?
	  

	Ellen: Wolinsky:
Wolinsky: Ellen:
Robert: Wolinsky:
Robert: Wolinsky:
	

	

	

	

	

	

	Ellen: Wolinsky: Ellen: Wolinsky:
	A feeling of spaciousness.
Is that what you are experiencing? Absolutely.
A spaciousness. From that spaciousness right now, how does that False Core in the distance seem to you?
	Wolinsky:
Student: Wolinsky:
	And if you felt appreciation, what would that feel like?
The first thing, I was happy and then confident.
Now, notice what experience comes forth and emerges naturally as we continue. If you felt happy and confident, what would that feel like?
	

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter 1


  
it for a moment. Acknowledge this as your essential core. Just be in that.
ESSENTIAL QUALITIES
ESSENCE and its spaciousness and the I AM are (mis)perceived by the False Core-False Self as empty (a lack) around which the physical body is organized. ESSENCE, on the contrary, is full of Essential Qualities. The I AM is "prior" to the qualities of ESSENCE and the Essential Core (see next chapter). Energy penetrates and permeates not only the child in the womb but also the space of ESSENCE, absorbing energy from the mother. During conception, the physical body is created through male and female, sperm and egg.' This energy interpenetrates your ESSENCE which is why it so difficult to sit in ESSENCE unless you can begin to process through and get the ESSENCE of ESSENCE. By turning yourself inside out, you can get pure ESSENCE before any kind of penetration or interpenetration of energy from another occurs.
Quantum Psychology defines pure as having no subject or object. Pure awareness, pure being, pure love, pure observation or pure knowing—these are all Essential qualities.
TURNING INSIDE OUT
Turning inside out means to notice that there is a space inside your physical body around which your body is organized. This space is your ESSENCE, it is you prior to taking on any psychology.° The energies of mom and dad permeate not only your physicalness but also your ESSENCE. Their energy comes at you, and is absorbed. This is why there is only a very small space in ESSENCE where that
'It should be noted that Quantum Psychology has a theory or story that "seekers" are often looking for that "one" touch, that "one" something to happen to them, and then they will be enlightened and all pain will cease. This obsessive-compulsive wish might be deeply rooted in age regression. To appreciate this, during conception there is an explosion and the "you"/ "I" is formed. Suddenly, the "you"/"I" "you" are, and pain begins. The desire to get the explosion of sudden enlightenment might be a repetitive age regression which occurs at a cellular level, a belief that if only we can get a hit (explosion ) from someone else (Mom/ Guru/God), we can go "prior" to the conception-explosion before pain and before we were, when there was NO-1.  
'see The Tao of Chaos: Quantum Consciousness, Volume H (Wolinsky, 1994).
20 penetration of energy did not occur. In this process, we are reversing the flow.
In this next demonstration, we are taking the space and we are going to turn it inside out, so you can experience pure ESSENCE. At the same time, we are allowing the energy to flow back to its original external source (mom/dad).
DEMONSTRATION #6
FROM FALSE CORE To ESSENTIAL CORE
Bill is a therapist from New York who has looked at his False Core for a year. He has a good handle on how it works.
Bill:I have the False Core experience of alone, and
then me trying to get rid of it. So there are two identities. Most of my energy has been dumped into destroying that sense of aloneness or merging so I don't have to experience that sense of alone.
Wolinsky:Where in your body do you experience the alone?
Bill:It's that kind of gaping wound, that gaping hole in
the core of my torso.
Wolinsky:Where in your body do you experience this trying
to connect (False Self Compensator) and get rid of the alone (False Core Driver)?
Bill:It's kind of an energy that comes out of the torso.
Wolinsky:Does the energy come out around the False Core,
or does the energy come out of the gaping wound?
Bill:It's around the gaping wound.
21
  
  
he Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Therapeutic Note
Notice how visceral the narcissistic wound is.
Wolinsky:Who modeled this alone for you?
Bill:I think both of my parents in their own way. She
was a controlling morn and he was a busy dad, tinkering.
Wolinsky:What I would like for you to do first is to have an
image of the controlling mom over there (other side of the room) and the lineage that goes with this behind. So you have the controlling mom and then her mother, and then her father as the army officer (lineage) behind them. And then the tinkering dad. Does he have any lineage that you are aware of?
Bill:He just reminds me a lot of his grandfather. I saw
the similarities between the two.
Wolinsky:Well, let's have your tinkering, busy dad here and
his lineage behind him. How does this gaping wound and this energy around it feel to you as you look at this?
Bill:I notice it. The energy is not as much but the wound
is more up this way. (Toward the middle of his
chest.) But the energy is lower.
Wolinsky:Prior to you taking on your mother's wound, what
was your experience?
Therapeutic Note
Here I make the assumption that he might have taken on some of his mother's wounds.
________________
Wolinsky:When you look at her (your mother), where is her
  
  
  
  
(your mother's) wound in her body?
Bill:It seems the same place. It's in there as well.
Wolinsky:How do you feel now looking at their wounds?
Bill:The intensities or feelings around it are less and
don't seem as big.
Therapeutic Note
When you realize that you have taken on another's pain, then your pain begins to diminish.
Wolinsky:So what lie could the controlling mom tell the tink-
ering, busy dad?
Bill:She's telling him he's not wounded.
Wolinsky:Okay, why would a controlling mom identity come
up with that lie?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
The alone(ness).  
What lie could the Grandma tell herself? That she knows what's going on.
Why would the Grandma tell herself that lie?
It could be a distraction somehow for her own wound.
Okay. What lie could Grandpa tell the Grandma?
Obedience. Just do what you are told and I will take care of everything. Complete control, they are the subordinate, you just need to do what you are told.
Why would Grandpa tell Grandma that lie?
To a-void the lies and the wound he has within himself.
And what lie could Grandpa tell himself? As long as I am in command, I'm okay.
Okay. And why would he come up with that lie?
Because he would have to acknowledge on some level he recognizes the wound.
How are you feeling right now seeing this lineage?
I have more energy, warmer inside. More relaxed inside.
Wolinsky:Which is?
2425
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Notice the energy of the lineage called the alone which you absorbed. Notice how all of this energy called alone and that it is in your chest. Notice it coming from both sides (Mom and Dad lineage). Now, take the label off of both sides of the energy coming at you and take the label off of the created response of resisting that energy coming at you,
Take the label off of the resistance? Yes, let them both be energy.  
Okay.
How do they seem to you now? Kind of dangling there.
How do you feel right now?  
Solid. Just really aware of the warmth inside of me.
How does merging or alone seem to you now?
Ideas. Just ways of talking about it. Not attracted or repulsed toward either side.  
________________
Chapter 1
neously inside your body. Notice how that energy seeped into your ESSENCE in a certain way, convoluting, penetrating or distracting the awareness of pure ESSENCE too.
What happens is an image of it wrapping itself around and creating a layer.
The penetration. Yes.
What I am going to ask you to do is notice the energy coming at you from the external and notice the body and all of that energy that is absorbed and how it interpenetrates and interupts the awareness of ESSENCE a bit. What I am going to ask you to do is to turn yourself inside out so that all your insides are out, and you have a new space inside yourself. So that the energies now are going back out to the lineage, back to its source by turning yourself inside out, and hence, having a Pure ESSENCE.
...(Silence)
How are you doing?
There's no word for it really.
From this place, is alone, or merging, or does anything touch you at that level?
No.
How are you doing?




26
	27
	

	

	

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology Bill:No words, gone, here, beyond.  
Therapeutic Note
The inside out approach assumes that some of the external energy penetrated into ESSENCE, hence distracting awareness or making it difficult to experience the purity of the ESSENCE as ESSENCE. By turning inside out, allows a "new" unconvoluted spaciousness of ESSENCE. And, simultaneously, the energies that were absorbed can now return to their original source (lineage).
Chapter 1
ESSENCE EXERCISE #3
The Heart'
FOCUS:
I.That your physical heart is the heart of an enlightened being.
2.That everyone's heart is the heart of an enlightened being.
This is a group meditation. Think about someone you believe is an enlightened being, e.g. Jesus, Buddha, Krishna, etc.


THE INSIDE-OUT PROCESS
"You're inside is out—
And your outside is in — So come on and take it easy, So come on and take it easy, Take it easy.
Everybody's got something to hide except for me and my (fill in the blank).
The Beatles
ESSENCE IS THE HEART THING
Heartfelt Essential love is the being-to-being or ESSENCEto-ESSENCE connection and relationship. ESSENCE has that as one of its most tender "interpersonal" ESSENCE-to-ESSENCE experiences. It is beyond personality and can happen at any moment. I know for myself that it is always there. What makes it exceptionally wonderful is when another (ESSENCE) is available and answers back. In other words they are in ESSENCE and you are in ESSENCE. This greatly magnifies the experience and makes ESSENCE a place for real intimacy-beyond the persona.
	Practice:
This meditation can be done in a group as well as.
Let your eyes close. Very gently focus your attention on your physical heart. Feel your heart beating, feel it and see it, get a good deep sense of the beating of your physical heart, and listen or feel or see your physical heart beating. Keep your attention on your physical heart, feeling or hearing or seeing it pumping. Imagine that inside your chest is the physical heart of an enlightened being. That her or his physical heart is beating inside your body. Feel his or her heart pumping, hear it pumping. Feel the beating inside your body, feel the blood rushing through your veins. Feel all the energy of this being's heart inside your body.
Part II
Now, imagine that within and inside every person's chest beats the heart of an enlightened being. In a moment, I'm going to ask you to open your eyes and make eye contact with someone in the room, realizing that their heart and your heart are the hearts of enlightened beings. Okay, let your eyes open. Now, make eye contact with a person, keeping that awareness. Keep your attention focused on your heart as the heart of an enlightened being. Make eye contact with someone and imagine that their heart and your heart are the hearts of enlightened beings. One after another, make eye contact with several people in the group. Feel your own heartbeat as the heartbeat of an enlightened being and know that theirs is the same heart.
	

	'This exercise originally appeared in Meditation—the Guide to the Art and Practice of inner Transmutation (1984), and later in _Hearts on Fire (1995).
	

2829
Chapter 1                              
It happens to everybody. That it is a had thing. In the past there was a sense that I would be abandoned or alone. There is the sense that I will never ever get to experience that person again. I think there is something about, I will have a lot of intense feelings and there have been beliefs that it wasn't okay to have a lot of feelings or to break down or to be impacted. Like death has a big impact and that's more selfish. There was a belief to be impacted by death was selfish.
To be impacted by death was selfish? According to what or whom?
My father. If you have grief, you are just being selfish.
How did he put that together?
Because the person who is dead is fine. They are dead. So you are feeling bad for yourself not for them.
Any other presuppositions about death?
I think in terms of a person to a person, it's final. That person is gone. I don't have a belief that I'm going to see them in heaven or in the light or in that kind of thing. There is a finality to it. It's a presupposition.
It is final. Anything else? That it is a sad thing.
Anything else?
31
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
That person will never exist for me. It challenges my sense of existence. How will I know that I exist if this person isn't witnessing me, what significance does my life have? And where it's come up around my mother. I don't have her to call up and say, "Oh boy this is what it was like going through the past and all that." In the past, I think there would have been more sense, did I really experience that if I couldn't have that person as a witness.
So if we go with this, "how do I exist if I don't have this person there?" Is that correct?
Yeah, there's an element of that.
How do I exist if this person is not there? What have been the consequences in your life to have the structure that says "how do I exist if this person is not there?"
I had to keep that person right here all the time. I had to keep creating them. I did that with my father for 18 years. Constantly having that person there to prove my existence and to prove my love for them or to prove their importance of their existence to me. It's both ways.
What's happening now? Just watching her.  
Regarding this whole structure called "I have to have someone there so that I know that I exist," how have you reacted to another person?
The first thing that pops into my head is that I have created people in my own image.
How did you do that?
Either told lies, stories about who they were or who they were not, either favorable or unfavorable, judgmental or idealization.
Do you ever psychically create them as images in your "head" to prove you existed?
Yeah, I have conversations inside my head. My mother used me to validate her existence. My mother lived through me.
Did you ever get energy through your mother living through you?
Yeah. I could feel heroic, protective, strong, parental.
Regarding this concept that. "I have to have somebody there to witness me so that I exist," What have you done to yourself?
First thing that pops into my mind is diminish myself.
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology Wolinsky:How so?  
Barbara:By putting my attention out there all the time in-
stead of having what's going on inside of me. Regulating my internal with the myth that I could handle what I was doing inside, I could manipulate the external world. I could keep that person there.  
Wolinsky:Now, have an image of your mother over there
(other side of the room). Now, I would like you to psychically give her energy so that she can give you energy so that you can exist.
Therapeutic Note
Here we are making the implicit-explicit. Asking her to do knowingly, consciously intentionally what she is doing unknowingly, unconsciously or unintentionally.
Barbara:She's dead so I can give her energy so I can exist.
Yeah.
Wolinsky:Intentionally, slowly do that again. Give her en-
ergy so she can give you energy so that you can exist. Do that a few times.
Chapter
Therapeutic Note
Rather than having her talk about it, I want her to do it directly.
Barbara:"I put energy on you so that you will put energy
back or give attention back to me so I will know that I exist."
Wolinsky:How are you doing now?
Barbara:I'm watching this judgment. That's selfish, that is
bad.
Wolinsky:That's bad. Is that judgment from your father?
Barbara:It's coming from my father who is in the corner.
Therapeutic Note
A pure being as ESSENCE or I AM does not judge itself. Therefore, it had to have come from something "outside" of her. The only question is Who?
Wolinsky:So have an image of your father over there and
take the label off of it and have it as energy, and allow that judging energy to go back to its source, i.e., your father.


  
A lot of grief is about that. Say that to me.  
A lot of my grief is putting my attention on her so something comes back about her to me so I can feel like I exist.
________________
Barbara: Wolinsky: Barbara: Wolinsky:
________________
I can do that.
How are you doing now? Just here.
How does this feel? You had to give energy to your mother so that she would give energy to you so that you would exist.
It's kind of fun in a way.
35
  

  

	Woiinsky: Barbara: Wolinsky:
	  
The Way of the Human 4 Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter I
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
I think I have spent a huge portion of my life trying to be in some way to create trauma or bigger than life so I know I exist.
________________
So this is all in resistance to non-existence. Yeah.
And regarding this structure that I have to keep my mother there so she gives energy to me, and I give energy to her and so on, so that "I exist," how have you deceived yourself?    
The deception is that "I don't exist."
Okay, look at me. Are you still right now creating that deception called "I don't exist without another or I don't exist period?" Right now !!
Right now, no, it doesn't matter. How are you doing?
Well, my body just calmed down.
By this identity structure that believes, "I have to give her energy so that she gives me energy so this identity exists to resist nonexistence," how has the mother identity (you have an identity here called the little girl, and the little girl gives energy to mom so that mom will give energy back to the little girl so the little girl feels like she exists so that she doesn't have to feel her concept of nonexistence)—how does this structure seem to you now?
Ridiculous.
How big is this structure to you now?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Therapeutic Note
It is a hot issue because her mother died so recently. I want to go through several of the concepts to help her experience things as they are as opposed to through the lens of distorted concepts. For example, this idea about death.
Wolinsky:If you fuse together death equals final, what are
you creating?
Therapeutic Note
From a Quantum perspective, there is no birth or death. The VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS condenses down and forms objects, people, thoughts, etc., and we call that life. The VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS thins-out and becomes VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS again and we call that death. But actually, there is neither. This is why Nisargadatta Maharaj said to me referring to -himself' "I was never born—and I will never die." He was THAT VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS and BEYOND.  
________________
Therapeutic Note
One thing came to my mind. Around ten years ago, I was in a relationship with a woman who lived in Maine. I was giving a workshop in Baltimore and she was supposed to visit me. Instead, she called and told me that not only was she not coming but she was breaking up with me. When this happened, I studied my inner process. It was like I had an internal book of rules. It was like I was looking into a book (my mind) which had been programmed to have an automatic response which I never questioned (it was in the software). It was like the rules were, break up, sudden break up, hurt, ah, yes, feel bad. And so I felt hurt and bad. I could see my unquestioned programming or my book of rules.    
Barbara:Then, there is just shock.
Wolinsky:Shock at her death or shock that she's separate
and gone now?
Barbara:Shock that just like that, she's gone.
Wolinsky:Create that.
  
  

  

	Probably just about everybody.
Give me an example.
I think I do it with Bob (her husband).
	  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Chapter I
Create the idea that there must be a feeling there that I'm resisting. Then create the idea that you have to go through that to find out what that is, then you will feel better.
Oh yeah, it takes up an inordinate time and energy and consciousness, or lack of it.
It has to do with, you don't exist. If you didn't exist, you don't have to do all of this. Create the idea that there is a feeling there, you must be resisting it so you don't have to experience nonexistence.
Okay.
If you separate the concept of final from the concept of death, they are separate concepts, what's the experience like?
There's nothing. There's just death. The body stopped. There's nothing.
Death, the body stopped, there's nothing. There are no words.
So if you separate death and final, they are separate concepts, what doesn't get created?
Nothing comes.
If you separate death and final, what if anything gets resisted?
It's a nonissue again.
41
  
  
Barbara:Not charged, just like NOTHINGNESS.
Interesting concept. Be prior to taking on the concept of final, notice the size and shape of the concept called final. Notice the BIG EMPTINESS, and see the BIG EMPTINESS and final as the same substance.  
Are you still creating that? No.
If you separate the concept of life and the concept of death, what doesn't get created?


Barbara: Wolinsky: Barbara: Woiinsky:
Barbara:
Life and death death and they
________________
Uh-huh.
How are you doing now? I'm okay. Things got fuller.
Now, you said something before about dying being part of living. Life sucks, dying is part of living.
Dying sucks and its part of having a body. The body dies.
Therapeutic Note
are separated even though the seed of life contains are inseparable And so, we reverse the process.
________________
Being.
What did you assume, decide or believe that got being not to be experienced or created?
I think I somehow decided that the mental constructions were more real than being.
Did you ever create mental constructions so you didn't have to experience nonexistence?
Yeah.
What did you assume, decide or believe that got you to do that?
If you separate life and death, these are two separate concepts—life concept and death concept—what gets created?  
________________
It almost feels more accurate to say I've created all the mental constructions to not experience existence rather than nonexistence.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
All this mental stuff gets created.  
What did you assume, decide or believe that got you to creating all the mental stuff?
42 If you separate the concept of life and the concept of death, if they are separate concepts, what if anything gets resisted?
No words.
How are you doing now?
43
  

Barbara:
	  

	  
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter 1


  
A non-concept.
Another concept you said was, she's not here physically. Define physical to me.
I guess that's what is not here. I don't know. I can't interact with this body that I called my mother. She's not there that way. I don't get to hold her again. I don't get to merge with her any more. Creature comforts.
Can you say to me, I have to give up the idea that I'll ever be able to merge again.
The hardest part is really giving up that I can never merge with my mother again.
Good, say that again.
The hardest part is accepting and giving up the fact that I can never merge with her again in all the ways we merged.  
Say that again.
The hardest part is not ever having that merger with my mother in the way I had grown accustomed to. The way I could feel connected to her. I can't ever merge with her again that way.
________________
Wolinsky:
Barbara:
Wolinsky:
Barbara:
Wolinsky:
Barbara:
Wolinsky:
Barbara: Wolinsky:
Barbara: Wolinsky: Barbara:
________________
Now, the question I have is, the kind of merger that you had with your mother, was it truly ever really satisfying? Or was there always a sense of something missing?
Something was always missing and when I saw her at Thanksgiving, the essential connection was there and if I'm honest, that's not gone.    
Can you say to me, I have an Essential Connection if I'm honest with myself and it's not gone?
Yeah, I have a Essential Connection with mom and if I'm absolutely honest with myself, it's not gone because she died.
Now, tell me one way you have been dishonest
with yourself regarding this Essential Connection.
Well, the stories are dishonest. All these mental constructs. The sense of grandiosity. The existence. Those are dishonest. It's also dishonest that I don't exist.
Okay. Tell me another dishonesty regarding your mother.
It's dishonest to say she's gone.
What did you assume, decide or believe that got you to tell yourself that dishonesty?
Well, if her body is gone, she's gone. Are you still believing that?
No.
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter 1
  
  
  
  
  
  
How does this concept called death seem to you now?                  
I don't know how to talk about it. I mean she died. She died.
Which means?
I don't know what it means.
Now, what I would like for you to do is to have an image of your mother, notice the size and shape of her, notice the BIG EMPTINESS she is floating in. Take the BIG EMPTINESS and condense it down and make it into another concept called mother. And then thin it out and make it back into BIG EMPTINESS. How are you feeling now?
Real vibrating, lots of energy.
So now I would like for you to be in your ESSENCE. This part you might want to do eyes open or eyes closed. You decide as we go along. So go into your own ESSENCE, then I want you to fall further back into that VOID beyond the ESSENCE. What's happening now?
There's no separation.
Go into it and take some VOID and condense it clown and make it into a mom and take some VOID and condense it down and make it into a Barbara. Now, decide that the Barbara is me and the mother is "Not Me." Now, again, very slowly, intentionally decide that Barbara is me and mother is the "Not Me."
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter 1  


Barbara:It's hard to do right now.
Wolinsky:Then imagine there is pain inside of this condensed
EMPTINESS called Barbara because she's the me and mother is the "Not Me." Now, create strategies so some how you can make this alleged "Not Me" somehow the same as the "I" you call yourself. Notice the EMPTINESS they are both floating in and see them all as made of the same substance. How are you doing now?
Barbara:Okay. Very intense vibration and energy.
Wolinsky:How does it all seem to you now?
Barbara:Nonexistence is a nonissue. I don't even know.
...Silence. (No words)
Wolinsky:Anything you want to say to me?
Barbara:What a trip.
________________
Debra:John.
Wolinsky:So John, I assume, has his own life, separate from
yours.
Debra: Wolinsky: Debra:
	Yes, very much so.
And that makes you feel?
At first, he didn't have a separate life and now he is starting to have a separate life. So now it makes me feel betrayed. I feel angry and then I go into, well, two months ago, he could hardly wait to see me and now it's not that big a deal for him. He would rather be on his land in the middle of nowhere.
	

Therapeutic Note
Betrayal is a False Core Distractor of I am Inadequate. Debra uses this to avoid her False Core Driver of I AM Worthless.
  
  
  

4849
  
  

Barbara: Wolinsky:
Barbara:
	  

	Wolinsky:
Barbara:
Wolinsky:
	  

	  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Chapter
In short, don't sugar coat and "play the client's game" to gain (the illusion of) rapport so they will like you and want to come back. Confronting the client's game requires therapist to have the client's' best interest at heart. However, this must be done with the therapist staying in ESSENCE.
Debra:To prevent you from seeing that I'm not worth it,
I pretend. I pretend to be really together and be what you are looking for, what you want. That I'll make you happy.
Wolinsky:So you don't see that I'm not worth it,ffill in
the blank).
Debra:I'll go along with whatever you want to do.
Wolinsky:So you don't see that I'm not worth it, I'll (fill in 
the blank).
Debra:Smile a lot and pretend that nothing bothers me.
Wolinsky:So you don't see that I'm not worth it, I'll Oil in
the blank).
Debra:Give you a lot of space, move away.
Wolinsky:Even though I (fill in the blank).
Debra:Don't want to do that. I'll pretend. That it is okay.
Wolinsky:What did you assume, decide or believe that got
you to creating all these pretends?
Debra:Well, I believe that's how it works. That's how
you get what you want.
Wolinsky:Are you still believing that?
  
Keep going, John, so you don't see that I'm not worth it,(fill in the blank).  
That I will let you know that other men are attracted to me. It's embarrassing.
John, so you don't see or know that I'm not worth it, I'll         in the blank).
be really smart. I'll read an article in The New Yorker and discuss it.
Now, complete the whole sentence yourself. John, so you don't see or know that I'm not worth it, I'll (fill in the blank).
________________
Therapeutic Note
In all narcissistic situations, you become the other person's reflection so that they will become your reflection. When that does not occur, pain in the form of anger, etc., ensues.
Debra:John, now that you are not being my reflection, I
feel betrayed.
Wolinsky:Okay, keep going.
Debra:John, since you are not now being my reflection,
I must have done something wrong or it was that I have no value, I'm just not worth it.
Wolinsky:John, since you are not my reflection in exchange
Debra:John, so you won't know or see that I'm not worthfor me being your reflection, I feel (fill in the
it, I'll just do a lot of pretending. I'll be what youblank).
want. I'll even meditate with you.
Wolinsky:I'm going to change the language. John, I became
your reflection so that (fill in the blank).
Therapeutic Note
Here we are going into her narcissism.
	Debra:
Wolinsky:
	John, since you are not my reflection in exchange for me being your reflection, I feel hurt. It's not fair.
What are you feeling now?
	

  
John, I became your reflection so that you would be interested in me. John, I became your reflection so that you would not push me away so you would think I was lovable.  
________________
A little sad. And also feeling kind of separate from it. Well, when you asked me that, I just feel this real solidness, really clear about that. I'm also feeling kind of shaky.
Wolinsky:Staying in that solid core. Where in your body do
Wolinsky:Say that again.you feel that shakiness?
Debra:John, I became your reflection so that you would
love me.
5253
  
  
  
  
  
Can you have an image of morn over there (on the other side of the room) and make a statement to your mother, "Since I couldn't connect to you because you weren't around, I cling to this philosophy.  
"Since I couldn't connect with you mom and dad, I had to create my own philosophy to hold on to." It makes a lot of sense.  
- How about, "Since I couldn't get you to reflect me, I created this philosophy."  
"Since I couldn't get you to reflect me or any response to me, I had to create something and I created this philosophy." It served me well in a lot of ways.
________________
Debra: Wolinsky: Debra:
Wolinsky:
Debra:
________________
Yeah, I tried hard to get you to reflect back to me. By pretending to what?
By being all kinds of things. By being a good girl, By being flirtatious. By entertaining. By being a high achiever. By getting married in high school, thinking at least they would have a reaction to a 17 year old saying I want to get married. Instead, they said, "Okay, honey, anything."
I would like for you to have John over there by the lamp in the corner. Let's see if you can notice the similarities and differences.
Between John and what goes on with my family?
Therapeutic Note
Wolinsky:How about, "Since I couldn't get you to reflectHere is the re-enactment trance-ference that occurs between John
back to me, I felt betrayed."and her family.
  

  

	Debra:
Wolinsky: Debra:
	Chapter 1
"Since I couldn't get you to reflect back to me, I felt betrayed."
What are you feeling now?
Just the story all the times that there were no connection or relationship between my mom and my dad and me. Yeah, they didn't know who I was at all. They were always nice but separate. They never yelled, they were like two wooden figures or cardboard cutouts in the house.
	

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology    
Wolinsky:Tell me a similarity between this relationship with
John and your relationship with your parents.
Debra:Well, the preten'ding to get them to respond so I
would feel worthwhile. A. lot of pretending. Like when I was a little girl, trying to get the attention and trying to get that from John.
Wolinsky:And you said you felt betrayed with John.
Debra:Yeah.
Wolinsky:And you felt betrayed by your parents. Now, let's
take this philosophy and put it over here (other side of the room). If you fuse together the world and your parents, what are you creating?
Debra:Well, that the world is a place that doesn't respond
to me, doesn't think I am important enough or worthwhile enough.
Therapeutic Note
For an infant, their parents are the world. Therefore, the six-step defusion process.
Wolinsky:If you fuse together world and parents, what are
you resisting?
Debra:I'm resisting people who don't pay attention to
me.
Wolinsky:If you separate world and parents, what are you
creating?
Debra:Well, it is just knowing, it doesn't matter if some-
body doesn't pay attention to me.
  
  
  
  
That will get even with your parents? I'll show them.
Can you say I will prove to you that I will have worth?
________________
Debra:My solar plexus.
Wolinsky:So look at your parents over there. Who modeled
(one or both of them) worthless?
Debra:Both of them.


  
Yeah. I will prove to you that I have worth. I've been doing it for years. By being successful, by having men in my life, by everything I do and none of it works. Prove to them that I am worthwhile. They just don't get it.
Therapeutic Note
No matter how much you "act out" (compensate) for your False Core Compensator, it never works. Remember all the compensations of a "shocked" infant's consciousness have nothing to do with present time reality and are driven by the resistance to the shock of the Realization of Separation.
Wolinsky: Debra: Wolinsky: Debra:
	They just don't get it that you are worthwhile? Yeah, or what I'm trying to do even.
Now, that you get it, how does it seem to you?
Well, it's a lot of energy for nothing. I mean it never works. Like could it be possible that I could give that up.
	

Wolinsky:Where in your body do you feel the "I have to
prove I am worthwhile (False Self Compensator)?
Debra:In my jaw.
Wolinsky:Where in your body do you feel worthless, or no
worth?
58
Wolinsky:Let's have an image of your mother and father
over there. (The other side of the room) Who's
stronger in worthlessness, your mother or father?
Debra:You mean who feels the most worthless?
Wolinsky:Yes.
Debra:That's a hard one to judge. Maybe my dad.
Therapeutic Note
Here we are developing several themes: I) that she took on Dad's False Core to merge; 2) that she used Dad's strategy to try to get Morn to merge with her; and 3) Oedipal Archetypical possibilities.
Wolinsky:The statement I would like for you to make to your
mother is, since I couldn't get you to merge with me, I merged with dad.
Debra:That's for sure. Since I couldn't get you to merge
with me at all, I merged with dad. It feels more like with my mom it was more like a way to demean her or look down on her when I merged with my clad. That I didn't need her, that was it.
Wolinsky:Can you say to your mother, I will get even with
you. I will steal your husband.
Therapeutic Note
Here we see the "Oedipal Archetypes" emerging.
59
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum Psychology  
Debra:That's scary because she is really jealous of me.
Always has been. I'll get even with you morn, I'll steal your husband. Wow. She knew that too. Absolutely.
Wolinsky:Say that again.
To get even with you, morn, I'm going to steal your husband. He is going to like me better. That's what I did.
________________
Chapter 1
Wolinsky:Look at the image of your mother over there and  
say "I resent" and (fill in the blanks).
Therapeutic Note
In Gestalt therapy, guilt is retroflected resentment, i.e., unexpressed resentment which is put back on yourself. Notice how she uses another False Core distractor of Resentment to avoid her False Core and how she uses the False Self of stealing her, (morn's) husband to prove worth and not feel unworthy.
  
  

  
  
Therapeutic Note
In this session, we could have her look at her mother's age-regression and re-enactment of her (her mother's) situations. However, this does not seem important right now. There is more than enough going on.
Wolinsky:Say that again. To get even with you, I'm going to
steal your husband.
Debra:To get even with you, because you can't give me
what I want, I'm going to steal your husband. It wasn't very nice. I'm feeling guilty.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
What did you create in response to them being affectionate and you being out of the picture?                          
Well, me wanting some affection from one of them. I didn't care which one.
I would like for you to have an image of all men out there. Look at your dad and notice how just the crumbs from your father made you feel so worthwhile.
It didn't take much.
Make the statement to these men that "I will just beg for the crumbs if that is what I can get."
I've done that too.
Say to your father, "I didn't get much, I'll beg for the crumbs."
I didn't get much, so I will just beg for the crumbs.
And to men out there, "Since I didn't get much,
I'll become your reflection just to get the crumbs."
Since I didn't get much, I'll just reflect you to get the crumbs.
6263
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Wolinsky:Now, this little girl identity who had to do that,
where do you feel her in your body?
Debra:My face.
Therapeutic Note
Here, she is "acting out" of an age-regressed little girl Identity. Therefore, that also must be explored because it is her lens through which she sees the world and herself.
Wolinsky:I would like for you to take the little girl's face
off, here's mom and dad, and take that little girl mask off and put it just over there (separate from her present time body) so we have mom and dad and little girl. How do you feel looking at the triangle here, mom, dad, little girl and can you also experience your own ESSENCE.
Debra:Yes.  
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINICLE:
When the False Core Driver—False Self Compensator and Identities are separated then there is only ESSENCE.
Wolinsky:Good. So as you look at me and as you feel part of
your awareness on your own ESSENCE. Notice that we are separate and simultaneously be aware of your own ESSENCE. Notice we are separate and let the relationship be between your ESSENCE and my ESSENCE simultaneously. Notice that you have a relationship ESSENCE to ESSENCE and have simultaneously separation from me.
64
Chapter 1
Therapeutic Note
This is very important—acknowledging separation at a biological, thinking and emotional level, and the total relationship at the level of ESSENCE and BEYOND.
Debra:Yeah, hmrn. That answers that.
  
I would like for you to look at your mom and to experience your ESSENCE and look at her ESSENCE so you notice the separation at a biological-thinking-emotional level, and simultaneously you notice the ESSENCE to ESSENCE relationship.
It's a little harder, but yeah I could do that. Do that with your dad.
It's easier to do it with mom.
Notice the men out there. Notice the ESSENCE to ESSENCE relationship but there's also a separation at other levels.
Yeah, this is what I was feeling with John the other night. I still love him but as a separate person on that level.
Wolinsky:How are you doing now?
Debra:Good, I like the way that feels. I feel very solid.
Wolinsky:Good. Now, in that solidness, where do you feel it
in your body?
Debra:Kind of through here (pointing to the center of
her body, her biological core).
65
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter
Wolinsky:See if you could have the experience not only from
your pelvic floor to your solar plexds, but also from the top of your cranium clown to here (sternum) where they meet.
  
Debra:Yeah, I feel it in my eyes.    
Wolinsky:How are you doing?
Debra:Great!
CONCWSION
Here we see a movement from the False Core to distractors, its manifestation in her present-time relationships being dismantled. This leads to the realization of ESSENCE, and simultaneously the Realization of Separation at the thinking, emotional and biological dimensions. Simultaneously, the Biological Core is a physical manifestation of ESSENCE and hence it too reveals itself.  
Note that ESSENCE contains Essential qualities, like love with no object, compassion, peace, etc. ESSENCE does not need work, rather as Gurdjieff said, "Essence is what you were born with, personality is what you acquired."
In this way, once the False Core-False Self, which you acquired, is dismantled and gone beyond—ESSENCE naturally is realized. In this way ESSENCE is and becomes not only the repository of the Essential Qualities of ESSENCE, and the answer to the No-Core—Walse Core---►False Self dilemma, it also completes the narcissistic injury and the shock of the Realization of Separation. In this way separation, while also the Essential Quality of unity with "another," can be realized and stabilized through the completion of the preliminary and preparatory practise of dismantling the False Core—False Self.
This unites us with our Essential Core and its delicious quali-
ties.
  
________________
  

  
here is no self or imagined self which is sepa-
rate from the lens it looks through.The self is
part of the lens, arises and subsides with the
lens, and is contained within the lens itself.
The I AM is beyond this imagined self and its imagined separate lens. The I AM is even beyond the knower of the self-lens complex.
T
he NON-VERBAL 1,4M is the gift of Nisargadatta Maharaj. It is pure being prior to ESSENCE with its Essential qualities. The NON VERBAL I AM is the No-State state prior to, and
  
it is without using, thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or per ceptions.
In contrast, the Verbal I AM occurs in the newer brain or the cortex and is prior to I am (fill in the blank with your False Core or False Self). Being Prior to your False Core-False Self, the verbal I AM is the root of your psychology. No verbal I AM, no I AM a False Core-False Self.
Nisargadatta Maharaj attempted to nip the False Core in the bud by staying in the verbal I AM prior to the False Core I AM (fill in the blank), and then onto the NON-VERBAL I AM.
It is important to differentiate the difference between ESSENCE and I AM. ESSENCE has Essential qualities. When you
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
are prior to Essential qualities, you have the NON-VERBAL I AM. So you could say that the NON-VERBAL I AM is the ESSENCE of ESSENCE. It is prior to any qualities and, hence, it is a No-State state. The NON-VERBAL I AM is without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions. If you are not using them, you are in pure being—or what Nisargadatta Maharaj would call I AM, the no-state, the stateless state of the non-being being.
It should be noted that the NON-VERBAL I AM uses no lenses or frames; hence, the NON-VERBAL I AM has no frames of reference, no references to frame.
Throughout most of the trilogy we have been looking at psychology and spirituality through various lenses.' But when the NONVERBAL I AM is revealed, all lenses, all diagnoses, all frames are seen as just maps, gone beyond and dissolve, leaving you with no frames of reference and no references to frame.
ESSENCE has Essential qualities, such as love with no object, compassion, observation with no object, etc. ESSENCE is the end point for some forms of spiritual practice. One of Nisargadatta Maharaj's major teachings was, "Hold onto this I AM (No-State state) and let go of everything else." Quantum Psychology can only imagine that it was his way of cutting through the False Core-False Self. Being with Nisargadatta Maharaj, this experience of the NON-VERBAL I AM and BEYOND was transmittable and transmitted from "him" to "you." "At this juncture, it can be said that the verbal I AM is the seed from which the False Core-False Self springs, and the NON- VERBAL I AM is beyond that.
The NON-VERBAL I AM is the seed of the Verbal I AMNisargadatta Maharaj called it the "Seed of Consciousness." Quantum Psychology would also call it the Fruit, condensation or the byproduct of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.
'For example, we have looked at psychology and spirituality through the lens or map of developmental psychology. It is important to note that these are maps and lenses and as such are not true, but might at their best give a person who believes in their psychology a view as to where they are stuck, and, as is often the case, at its worst they (the lens or map) is believed. And once believed, attempts are made to heal a map, which is False, thus yielding no success. Ultimately, therefore, all maps, frames and lenses as NOT-I, should be discarded.  
70 Chapter II  
NO I AM-NO FALSE CORE
Without the verbal I AM, there is no separate consciousness, no False Core and no individual psychology.
The False Core Driver-False Self Compensator cannot exist without the verbal I AM, because then whose False core Driver-False Self Compensator would it be? and the verbal I AM cannot exist without the NON-VERBAL I AM. For many "psycho-spiritual" traditions this is the end point. For Nisargadatta Maharaj, this was a beginning point(er), which, when it falls away, takes you beyond consciousness itself. He believed that once the I AM is or becomes stabilized, then the I AM itself can fall away.'
In 1976 a French psychiatrist asked Nisargadatta Maharaj a long-winded question about births-deaths, credits-debits, etc. Nisargadatta Maharaj replied,
"Who told you that you exist? He then waited a few minutes for a response. When there was none, he said, Your mind tells you that you exist, consciousness tells you that you exist and you believe it. "If you understand just this, it is enough."
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
The I AM, as Nisargadatta Maharaj says, is the seed of "your consciousness." No I AM, no consciousness.
When I returned to the United States after six years in India, "I" found that it was very difficult to just have the "I AM" and let go of everything else. Quantum Psychology is an attempt to include Nisargadatta Maharaj's basic principles in a Western context of living life, having relationships, holding down a job, etc.
What "I" noticed was that the NON-VERBAL I AM often occurred in Nisargadatta Maharaj's presence. However when "I" went back into the world and had relationships, etc., my "uncooked seeds" sprouted again. According to Quantum Psychology if you dismantle
The I AM will be visited again and aaain throughout Volume III.  
71
  
the False Core-False Self, the possibility of holding onto the I AM might make the I AM easier to stabilize and eventually' go beyond.
________________
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
The description of a thing is not the thing.


  
A SUMIV1ARY OF
NISARGADATTA MAHARAJ'S CONCEPTS
I. There is only ONE substance. And you are THAT ONE SUBSTANCE.
2. Anything you think you are, you are not.
3. Question everythingdon't believe anything.
4. Everything you know about yourself came from outside of you—therefore, discard it.
5. Hold on to the I AM—let go of everything else.
6. The only way to find out who you are is to find out who you are not.
7. To let go of something, you must first know what it is.
8. The experiences is contained within the experience itself.
9. Anything you know about you cannot be.
According to Quantum Psychology, this was a lot to ask in a Western culture. Following Nisargadatta's principles, Quantum Psychology found that if you dismantle enough of your False Core-False Self, the I AM which is pure being beyond ESSENCE is revealed. The I AM stands between the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS and ESSENCE.
I AM ERRORS
Some people think that Nisargadatta Maharaj's I AM is a construct. I continually meet people who believe that you can create I AM as a primary experience. The NON-VERBAL I AM is beyond and prior to the label I AM. The NON-VERBAL I AM has no qualities, it is prior to description or label and is actually unnamable. It is important not to confuse the description or idea, name or label of I AM with the NON-VERBAL I AM, which is NON-VERBAL.
________________
I AM EXERCISE #I PREPARATION
Notice that the experiencER-experience (knowER-known) has different phases. By noticing the stage or phase, the experiencERexperience or knowER-known are in, they disappear. Ramana Maharishi used to say it was important to trace the source of the "T' thought.    
Four stages: 1) arising; 2) maintaining; 3) ending; 4) "Quanturn-fying."
Step I Step II Step HI Step IV
Step V
	Notice an experience or known.
Notice the experiencER or knowER.
Notice the stage the dyad is in and name the phase. Notice what occurs when "you" say to "yourself," "What knowER is knowing that?"
Notice the experiencER along with the experience or knowER along with the known disappear into (or is) NOTHING (i.e., "you" disappear or go blank). (This is Quantumfying.)
	

The Bhagavad Gita says that it is important to know the knower of the field." When it is studied, the knower of the field or the observer disappears while the NON-VERBAL I AM or Beyond remains.
I AM EXERCISE #2
Guided Exercise: From False Core to Essential Core to I AM Let your eyes close.
Step 1:Go into your False Core.
Step 2:Knowingly, consciously, intentionally, believe your False
Core.
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter 11
  
BIG STEP: Then ask, "What knowER is knowing that (i.e., thought, feeling, etc.). Notice you go blank into the NON-VERBAL I AM and Beyond.      
Practice:
Let your eyes close, feel your body being supported by either the seat or the floor, and watch the rising and falling of your breath. As thoughts go through your awareness, say to "yourself," "There are thoughts." Rather than identifying with them as your thoughts as they go through your awareness, gently say, "There are thoughts." If feelings begin to happen, gently say, "There are feelings," noticing them from a distance. If thoughts of life come up, or if anything comes up, say to "yourself', "There is life." Rather than "My life," say "There is life." Then ask, "What knowER is knowing that (.e., thought, feeling, etc.). Notice again you go blank into the NONVERBAL I AM and Beyond.
Nisargadatta once told me,
"The problem is that you identify yourself as a person in life, rather than WITNESSING, (beyond the observer-observed or knower-known dyad), that there is life, which actually has nothing to do with you, so you should stay out of it."
In the Avadhut Stotram it is said that someone in that No-State state and beyond has no need to accept or reject and is beyond attributes and qualities, beyond even the concept of existence and nonexistence.
SUMMARY AND EXERCISES  
The verbal I AM precedes the False Core-FALSE SELF, and cuts the connection because first you would have to say I AM (fill in the blank with a False Core). The NON-VERBAL I AM is prior even to this and is beyond qualities, even the Essential qualities of ESSENCE, and is the ESSENCE of ESSENCE. If "you" can, hold-
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
onto the NON-VERBAL I AM and let go of everything else. If you can't, Hold onto the verbal I AM and let go of everything else.
The NON-VERBAL I AM is without thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions.
The verbal I AM is prior to I AM (fill in the blank). Nisargadatta Maharaj tried to cut the False Core-False Self at its roots, prior to I AM (fill in the blank) .
To make that cut one must un-fuse the I AM from the False Core-False Self.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
If there were no-body, then there would be no I AM.
Eventually, you'll see that the I AM is also a concept, a universal Archetype (see next chapter). When the I AM disappears, it is a quantum leap.
Nisargaddata Maharaj says,  
Once you believe I AM, then you believe "I am a man." "1 am a woman" and "I have all these things that I have to do." I believe "I need this and I need that." So cut it right at I AM.
Maharaj's premise is that you start from I AM and use it as a pointer, understanding it is the seed of your personal consciousness. As I mentioned previously, the process of just being I AM and letting go of everything else while living in the world, having relationships, holding down a job, etc., was very difficult for this "me" and "I" imagine it is difficult for most people. For that reason, Quantum Psychology emerged to help this process and to stabilize awareness. When its theory is applied, it might help "you" to be established, stabilized and rest into your own presence without retreating from the world.
It should also be noted that Quantum Psychology is not interested in changing maps or beliefs or in re-programming or substituting one set of beliefs for another. Actually, Quantum Psychology
76
Chapter  
dismantles psychology and spirituality. Oftentimes, Quantum Psychology does not, like psychology and oftentimes spirituality, lead to a "new" beliefs or frames of reference but rather to the I AM and Beyond; hence, NO FRAMES OF REFERENCE, NO REFERENCES TO FRAME.
Psychology's failure is in trying to change the abstractions of the nervous system, which is a later abstraction of an abstraction trying to change an earlier abstraction, rather than letting them be or dissolve so that the beingness of I AM can naturally emerge.
The NON-VERBAL I AM—which should not be confused with the verbal I AM—is prior to meaning.
If you can stabilize in the NON-VERBAL I AM—stay there. If you cannot, Quantum Psychology might help you to stabilize there through dismantling not changing, reframing, re-forming, re-programming, healing or transforming your psychology (i.e., your False Core Driver or False Core Compensator).
Quantum Psychology is rooted in WHO AM I?—not changing, reframing, reprogramming or copying (modeling). Spirituality, too, has the same roots in WHO AM I? Advaita Vedanta, therefore, fulfills psychology's purpose of the realization of WHO YOU ARE (i.e., THAT ONE SUBSTANCE through the Vedanta of Not This-Not This).
CONCLUDING EXERCISES
Nisargadatta Maharaj was really into the I AM, and he never mentioned ESSENCE. To get people to go prior to their ideas Nisargadatta Maharaj would say, "Who came first? You or (fill in the  blank)? When people asked him about God, he would answer, "Who came first, you or God? If you (the 1AM) weren't there, there wouldn't be any concept of God." This is why he said to meditate (focus) on 'yourself" prior to any thoughts.
Another question (which we will focus on in greater depth in Chapter IV, the NOT-I-I) that frequently arises is, "What is the difference between I AM and NOT-I-IT' I AM is a No-State state—no thoughts, memories emotions, associations or perceptions. The NOTI-I is the same but also contains the awareness of the BIG EMPTI-
77
  
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
NESS. The NOT-I-I is the WITNESS of the arising and subsiding of the observer-observed, knowER-known dyad.
THE QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY SHORTCUT
I AM EXERCISE #4
________________
Chapter U
5. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, Is there really a personality, just thoughts, memories, emotions, associations and perceptions floating in and out of you (the VOID), or neither?
6. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, What is it that has a thousand eyes but cannot see?
7. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, What is it that has a thousands ears but cannot hear?
  
Notice an experience.
Observe the experience.
Notice what occurs when the question is asked, "What observer is observing that"? Notice you go blank because in that "moment" you go beyond the observERobserved dyad knowER-known or experiencER-experience dyad, and into the I AM. This eventually might lead to the NOT-I-I.
THE "I AM" EXERCISE #5
Guided Exercise. Eyes closed. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, ask yourself these questions:
( I) Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, Are you a personality or does the personality appear within you or neither?
2. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, Does this personality that appears within you have form or is it formless or neither?
3. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, Is this personality always there, does it come and go or neither?
4. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, Are you the thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, do they appear and then disappear in the VOID or neither?
78
________________
I AM EXERCISE #6
FROM I AM TO NOT-I-I
Exercise (to be done individually or in a group)
Let your eyes close.
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, is there something wrong with you, nothing wrong with you, or neither?
'Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you worthy, unworthy or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, do you have an ability to do, an inability to do or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you inadequate, adequate or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, do you exist, not exist or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you alone, connected or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you complete, incomplete or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you powerless, powerful or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you loveless, loveable or neither?
*Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, is there no control, control or neither?
79
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, what is control?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, is there safety, no safety or neither?
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you crazy, sane or neither?
Notice the NON-VERBAL I AM, the No-State state.
Now, being in that, allow your awareness to fall or move further and further backward, going further and further until you are just beyond the I AM. Now, notice the BIG EMPTINESS and how it appears to go on forever. Just keep allowing awareness itself to continue to go further and further backwards. Allow "the one" that is moving further and further backward to be the same substance as the BIG EMPTINESS. When you are ready, you can let your eyes open.
From "here" we begin to appreciate that NOTHING exists except on a verbal (thinking) level. The body and the nervous system produce thoughts of I AM (fill in the blank with "I" thoughts). The body is a condensation of the Quantum EMPTINESS and is, therefore, a Quantum event.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
You can only see your own level. In other words, things can only be perceived at the level that you are on.
Volume III is about GOING BEYOND, about acknowledging each prior level and seeing them as a construction (condensation) of PURE UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS or VOID and then allowing it to de-construct.
See you soon.
With love
your brother
Stephen
________________
CHAPTER III
THE COLLECTIVE UNCONSCIOUS:
THE ARCHETYPICAL DIMENSION  
"The I AM comes from the collective"
—Nisargadatta Maharaj
T
he teiin "collective unconscious" was made
popular by Jung for whom "the true history of
the spirit is not preserved in learned volumes
or in memory, but in the living organism of every individual." As we look inwardly into our lives and "outwardly" at the world, it becomes apparent that we share not only a "biological -being together" but also a "psychological-being-together."
We not only share those things about which we are "collectively aware" but also those things of which we are "collectively unaware."
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY AND THE COLLECTIVE
Quantum Psychology sees the Collective Unconscious and its Archetypes as being formed by a condensation of the "Quantum EMPTINESS" or VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. "First", THE VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
CONSCIOUSNESS contracts to form the Physics Dimensions of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, and strong and weak forces along with the ideas of distance and location. This leads toward the collective "experience" of Archetypes such as gods, "seekers after truth," "personal growth," enlightenment, anima-animus, etc.
What will be delineated and discussed is the Quantum understanding of Archetypes and what is the "you" you call "you":
1 ) The Archetypical Collective Unconscious dimension as a condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS and as a by-product of the Physics Dimensions.
2. Many so-called Archetypes are not really Archetypes because they go from the bottom up—from the personal, regressed conscious mind—rather than from the top down (i.e., VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS condensing).
3. The influence of the Physics Dimensions and forces on the creation of Archetypes.
4. Spiritual and psychological systems as Archetypical manifestations of the Physics Dimensions.
5. The I AM as the ultimate Archetype—the foundation which must exist and on which all other Archetypes are based. It too is a by-product of the contraction of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.
________________
Chapter 111
  
BELIEVING WITHOUT ENQUIRING: THE RISE AND FALL OF CARL JUNG    
ARCHETYPES OF JUNG
For Jung, an Archetype is made up of "archaic remnants of the psychic history of the human species." The remnants of human experience have come to form "primordial images" which are more than intellectual postulates. This is the "Archetype," a model from which all things of the same kind are made.
An Archetype is a universal pattern or motif; which comes from the collective unconscious and is the basic content of religions, mythologies, legends and fairytales. It emerges in individuals in the form of dreams, visions and fantasies. Each Archetype has its own specific energy and is capable of acting upon the world.
In a real sense, Archetypes, which are a phenomena of God-like dimensions, are alive and functioning in the world. They are able to produce a meaningful interpretation or to interfere in a given situation.
ARCHETYPES FOR QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY: AN OVERVIEW
For Quantum Psychology, the Archetype naturally contains remnants of psychic history with primordial images. But Quantum Psychology does not separate the Archetype from the individual. As a force both are created by the condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS which yields a creation of the Collective-Archetypical dimension. It is a universal description of an occurrence not separate from either the personal or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. Archetypes contain different densities of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. They do not rule the world or act on the world, as Jung suggests, but are made of the same substance as
The Way of the Human * Beyond Quantum Psychology
the world. Archetypes come from the same condensation of the EMPTINESS formed by the Physics Dimension which'remains and is still a condensation of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE.
In Quantum Psychology Archetypes are patterns which describe phenomena which seem to collectively occur within the species of living beings. Archetypes are not mystical though they can be viewed that way from within the archetype themselves.
PERSONAL ARCHETYPES
All False Cores Drivers and False Self Compensators have their origins in Archetypical patterns which come from universal experiences within the Collective Unconscious which is a condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.
SLIPERSTRINGS
According to string theory, if we could somehow magnify a point particle, we could actually see a small vibrating string. According to theory, matter is nothing more than the harmonies created by vibrating strings. The universe itself, composed of countless vibrating strings, would then be comparable to a symphony. (pp. 153-154, Kaku)
Superstrings can be seen as a great metaphor because, it unites,
under one concept, a way to describe a unified field theory. The search
which serves to fulfill Einstein's dream of "a theory of everything."
Quantum Psychology is not saying Superstring Theory is
correct, since whether the concept is correct or not does not directly
matter to Quantum Psychology. What does matter is that superstrings
include all forces and Physics Dimensions. Thus, it includes not only
all Archetypes and all "you" call "you," but it actually provides a
process to go beyond. Whether Superstring theory is right or wrong,
the forces of the Physics Dimensions (energy, space, mass, time, grav
ity, etc.) are here to stay. In this way, the Physics Dimensions and its
84
Chapter III
forces might be included as a major piece in Quantum Psychology's theory of everything
In Quantum Psychology workshops much time is spent dismantling concepts, the most critical being energy, space, mass and time. Why? Because according to David Bohm nothing could exist in the physical universe if it did not contain these four dimensions. Taking Bohm a bit further, we can see that there are other physics dimensions and forces. There is an electro-magnetic dimension, a weak force radioactive (the earth), a strong force radioactive (the sun), gravity, sound, particle realities, waves, light and dark matter.
These Physics Dimension and forces exist, as do others, some known, some yet to be discovered. But given that Quantum Psychology has one foot in the world of physics, it is important to be able to; 1) identify the Physics Dimensions and forces which appear to be outside of ourselves (but are not) and are actually everything we imagine ourselves to be; 2) bring the concepts into awareness; and 3) dismantle them.
THE DIMENSIONS AND ARCHETYPES
The question is why this in a chapter on the Archetypes and the Collective Dimension and why is this a part of Quantum Psychology?
The answer to the first question is that we need to dismantle our concepts about "things" which are not the "things" themselves so we can experience what "is" and go beyond.
The second question focuses on the Collective Unconscious with its Archetypes, or better yet, the Physics Dimensions, as the source of what we call Archetypes and what we call the "Personal I." To illustrate this, we will use the metaphor of a prism. Imagine taking a prism and shining a light through it. Depending on the kind of light and the angle of the prism, different colors are formed, creating a rainbow. However, it can be said, that the rainbow is still made of the same one light. In other words, the colors appear different, "as if they were made of different substances, but this is an illusion—the
`See The Tao of Chaos.  
85
  
The Way of the Human Beyond Quantum Psychology
light is contained within the rainbow and is what the rainbow is made of.
According to physics, before the BIG BANG and the creation of the universe, everything was NOTHING, THAT ONE SUBSTANCE. When the universe cooled the different Physics Dimensions were formed. In other words, imagine energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces as cooled parts of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE, all of them now differentiating and exerting a "force" upon each other, and interacting with each other.
Now, let us go back to our light-prism-rainbow metaphor and substitute the light with the NOTHINGNESS, and the prism with superstrings as the medium to form the Physics Dimensions. We could then say that the light was the NOTHING, superstring was the prism (medium contraction) and the rainbow the Physics dimensions.
Therefore, it could be said that what we call archetypes and ultimately "a personal me" or "a personal you," is actually a manifestation or a combination of the physics dimensions and forces (the rainbow) which are, ultimately, made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE or NOTHINGNESS. In this way, you could say that the "you" "you" call "yourself," is a combination of interactions of the Physics dimensions and forces. Again, going back to our earlier metaphor of the prism (superstrings) and the physics dimensions (rainbow), we could say, metaphorically, we are a rainbow made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE, which in appearance only imagines itself to be made of different substances.
THE PLAY (INTERACTIONS) OF THE DIMENSIONS
This idea of a "play" or interaction of the dimensions and forces is not new. In the Hindu Yoga tradition, they refer to the world and what you call "you" as a "play of the elements" (i.e., air, earth, water, fire and ether). The forces, which they call gunas, contain Tama Guna (force) representing the inert force Sattva Guna (force) representing purity, and Raja Guna, (force) representing activity.
According to Hindu Yoga everything (including us) occurs through the "play" (interaction) of the elements and the "play of the
86 Chapter III
gunas (forces)." The Bhagavad Gita says that we are all subject to this play or interaction. Nisargadatta Maharaj once said to me, "Even the physical form of the Guru is subject to the play (interaction) of the Gunas (forces)." In other words, we, our bodies and all we think we are, are subject to, and part of, and are made from these interactions, but which ultimately are only THAT ONE SUBSTANCE not two (hence, Advaita).
Given their limited understanding of the physical universe Hindus described these forces and elements in the best and possibly the only way they knew how thousands of years ago.
As we approach the 21" century, only our scientific understanding has increased (i.e., we call them Physics Dimensions and Forces rather than elements and Gunas). But the understanding that "it," the "world," and "ourselves" as we know it, are formed by forces and the Physics Dimensions which are not outside of ourselves (but are what we are made of) interacting, playing, and dancing, like a ballet or symphony has actually not changed that much. As Kaku has written:
Matter is nothing but the harmonies created by vibrating strings containing the Physics Dimensions of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces. Since there is an infinite number of harmonies, that can be composed for the violin, there is an infinite number of forms of matter that can be constructed out of the vibrating strings. . . . The Universe itself, composed of countless vibrating strings, would then be compared to a symphony. (pp. 153-154)
If we use the metaphor of a string, it can be said that the vibration and harmony of each string creates Forces and Physics Dimensions which, like the prism forming a rainbow, creates what we call archetypes and a "personal me" and a "personal you" out of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS or NOTHINGNESS. Or as Nisargadatta Maharaj said, "In the beginning there was NOTHING ABSOLUTELY, the I AM appeared
87
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
(through condensation), and one day this I AM will thin-out and there will be NOTHING AGAIN."
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Nisargadatta Maharaj said, "The I AM comes from the COL-
LECTIVE" (a play or interaction of the Physics dimensions).
This means that the basic I AM which precedes all we call ourselves, and even the "you are," are also Archetypes or a combination of the Physics Dimensions (Rainbow) through the Super strings (Prism) and which arise out of a condensation of the NOTHINGNESS or VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.
As mentioned earlier, whether string theory is right or wrong is inconsequential. What is important, however; is that there is an intermediate "something," prior to the Physics Dimensions and forces which forms what we call "us," and for now, we might as well, call it Super Strings.
THE INTERACTING PHYSICS DIMENSIONS AND ARCHETYPES
The NOTHING "contracts" and uses (in this metaphor) the strings as its vehicle to form what is commonly called the Archetypes of the Collective Unconscious. The ultimate Archetype is the I AM.' Further contraction forms what we call the personal unconscious False Core Driver, and yet still further contraction, the "personal conscious" False Self Compensator.
Everything from psychotherapy to spiritual work unknowingly focuses, and is propelled by particular aspects of the Physics Dimensions of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces, etc.
This particular section will focus on the impact that the Physics dimensions have on these Collective Archetypes which leads to spiritualizing and psychologizing everything.
`This is crucial to understanding Nisargadatta Maharaj: "Hold on to the I AM let go of everything else.: The I AM is the one Archetypical COLLECTIVE experience we all share and it is prior to the False Core Driver-False Self Compensator which it thus undercuts. As will be discussed later, the Archetype of 1AM ultimately disappears, propelling us beyond the COLLECTIVE and into the NOT-I-I.  
88
Chapter III  
The Collective can be viewed as the field of universal consciousness created by the strings (or whatever the first vehicle of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS is), and the. Archetypes as manifestations of the Physics Dimensions and forces of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces, etc.
To illustrate:
VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS
or
NOTHINGNESS
Strings
.j.
Physics Dimensions
Collective-Archetypes
Personal Unconscious
Personal Conscious
This paradigm helps us to understand:
I) That in most situations, with rare exceptions, the "personal" cannot be reached or stabilized in the NOTHING or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS unless the "path"' from personal to unconscious to Collective Ar-
'As mentioned earlier, ultimately there is no path; however, at this level, for the sake of
conversation, we will use this word. This will disappear as well as everything else in Chap-
ters V and VI, VII, the VOID, the NAMELESS ABSOLUTE and BEYOND, respectively.  
89
  
  
  
  
2) that at our deepest level, the vehicle we use to develop this awareness or path is mirrored in the Archetypes' which demonstrate "stuck points" in the Physics Dimensions as manifested in the personal (to be discussed below).
We are all made of varying "amounts" of the Physics Dimensions of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces. These Dimensions act as vehicles for the strings which, in turn, "demonstrate" or "become" all we think we are. Each "psycho-spiritual" path is fixated on particular Physics Dimensions since each path is made of the NOTHING or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, and "later"' varying degrees of the Physics Dimensions (Rainbow). And so even though we imagine we choose a path, the path might mirror and contains similar amounts of the Physics Dimensions of which we, the imagined "chooser," are also made up of. The understanding that becomes clear is that "SPIRITUAL PATHS" ARE ARCHETYPAL.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
You can never go beyond an Archetype by using, acting out, believing in an Archetype or through the Archetype itself.
Do you know why we end up getting nowhere (going beyond "ourselves") on a spiritual path we imagine we choose? Because we are "acting out an Archetype?" The Archetype condensed (Rainbow) can only choose, react, re-enforce its own Archetypical patterns, beliefs and, in a word, it can only re-enforce itself.
'Actually- these Archetypal "choices" are due to a combination of interactions in the Physics Dimensions. The "personal I" never chooses. The idea of choice and chooser comes after the experience has already taken place and is a by-product created by the Physics Dimensions, and the Archetypes. It is the root of ego, "1 do," I choose," etc.  
Later exists in time but in the VOID. of UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS there is no-time hence it becomes meaningless (see Chapter V).
90
________________
I He believed in Archetypal images which he saw as real.
2. He worked with them, derived meanings from them, analyzed them and, in short, acted on them.
3. He saw them as separate from himself, revealing something to himself, rather than understanding that the interpreter of the Archetype is part of the Archetype itself and that you are Beyond the Archetype or its interpreter.
To illustrate, if Jung had an imaginative vision of a deity, such as being told he was Christ—he believed it. For him this dream or vision was an acknowledgement and integration of ancient Archetypical images which we are cut-off from and which fragment our psyche. For this reason Jung spent much time analyzing Archetypes, and creating and believing in a process whereby you become a deified Archetype, which he called the deification process.
Nisargadatta Maharaj once said to me,
You think you are a person, so you think Maharaj is a person. You think you are an entity or deity, so you think Maharaj is an entity or deity. Maharaj is not a person, an entity or a deity, Maharaj is COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
Quantum Psychology can only speculate as to "why" Jung was so enamored by Archetypes and deification and, hence, makes up a story to explain this;
I .Jung was interested in an integrated psyche (mind);
2. Jung believed in the psyche and its Archetypical representa-
tion;
3. Jung was not interested in finding out who he was;
91
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology  
4.Jung did not have a "realized" teacher, someone to say, "Don't
believe anything, question everything. Anything yon think you are you are not."
Assuming (and, of course, it is all assumptions which mean it cannot be true), what is the difference between Jung and archetypes and Quantum Psychology and archetypes? Hopefully the following illustration will help to clarify.
  
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY AND ARCHETYPES
  
  
1 ) Quantum Psychology wants to go beyond the mind
2) Jung believed in the psyche and in its Archetypical representation      
Chapter III
SPIRITUAL SYSTEMS AND ARCHETYPES
When "spiritual systems" are viewed through the lens of the Physics Dimensions, they reveal what the "Spiritual" Systems and "paths" to realization are; fixations on a particular Physics dimension or force. To best illustrate this, it is important to describe the forces and Physics dimensions and their Archetypal relationship to different "Spiritual" Systems.
Please note that the list on the following page is very very brief and hardly complete but can serve as a simple contextual understanding. Also, it is in no way an attempt to "put-down" religions or therapies which seek realization. Still, if we understand their relationship to the Physics Dimensions and forces the Archetypes represent, then we can see why, if you are operating out of a "spiritual" or psychological system governed by the Physics Dimension and forces, you will always be acting out of an Archetype—spinning your wheels and never "getting" anywhere." To repeat a Quantum Psychology principle, you can never go beyond an Archetype through an Archetype.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
If you are operating out of an Archetypical system based and organized by a Physics Dimension you can only "act out" the Archetype.
THE PURPOSE OF THE UNDERSTANDING    
I.To appreciate the Physics Dimensions which helps us to view
our Archetypical structure (systems) rather than believing in it and hoping to "get" something from it.      
   2. To appreciate why we cannot get to much further than believ-
ing and hoping to "get."
   3. To appreciate an Archetypical "acting-out cannot get you free,
ultimately you get stuck in the Archetype which re-enforces your False Core which is Archetypical.
  
'Quantum Psychology understands that there is no getting anywhere, or a where to get.  
92
	93
	

  

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
Mass
Time
  
  
I. The Sun as God 2. Sun Worship
      1.   Rituals around light, waving lights, candles.
      2. Light Beings
      3. Yantras
         1.     Earth Pagan Religions
         2. Pagan
         3. Earth as the Mother
         4. Earth as a powerful volcanic Core
         5. Earth as the Witness
            1.     Seeing people as machines
            2. Gurdijeff and his concept of Kundabufter
SoundI. Mantras
Gravity1. Rolfing, Feldenkrais
               4. To appreciate an Archetype (which suggests realization through its version or representation of a Physics dimension can never go beyond itself and yields only more of itself and, ultimatey, offers only hope and faith.
               5. To appreciate and go beyond the Archetypical representation in the form of the Physics Dimensions.
               6. To appreciate that the I AM is the primal Archetype of the Col-
lective-NO I AM Archetypes.
________________
What then is the purpose of all of this: To go beyond your Archetypical systems and see it for what is—a contracted Physics Dimension made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE. Acknowledge it, accept it and go beyond the "I" that is wedded to the Archetypical, spiritual or psychological system.
ARCHETYPICAL SUMMARY
Step 1:Notice the Spiritual Psychological or body system you
are involved in.
Step 2:Notice (by tracing it back) how it re-enforces your False
Core Driver and False Self Compensator.
Step 3:Notice the predominant practice, i.e., Mantras, Light,
Space, Energy, etc.
Step 4:Allow it to be and expand your awareness to include it
by noticing the Physics Dimension or Forces it is associated with.
Step 5:Notice the NOTHING or the VOID OF UNDIFFER-
ENTIATED CONSCIOUSNES in which the contracted Physics Dimensions and the Archetypes are floating and see them as made of the same Substance as the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.
9495
  
  

  

  
  
Ask "yourself' or "another" these questions:
In relationship to X
(a dimension or force)
                  1. What must I know?
                  2. What must I not know?
                  3. What must I pretend to know?
                  4. What must I pretend to not know?
These questions are repeated many times to "oneself' until nothing more emerges.
ILLUSTRATING POSSIBLE ARCHETYPES
In order to better perceive the contracted Physics Dimensions we call Archetypes, several spiritual and some major Archetypes are presented below, followed by a demonstration of their impact and "how to" go beyond them.
The Light Dimension  
                  * I am light.
                  * I am purple, blue, white, etc., light.
                  * Light is the origin of the world and universe.
                  * Light is god.
                  * Light awakens the world.
                  * Light is sound made manifest.
                  * I must worship the light.
                  *   Light can protect another from pain or problems.    
                  * I must go into the light.
                  * They can take you to the light.
                  * Light is a formless representation of god.
                  * Light is a symbol of god.
                  * Sound is solidified light.
                  * Light is a manifestation of god.
                  * There are different lights, each having different
significances, and when I see them I will become en-lightened.
                     * Enlightenment is about light. DEMONSTRATION #1
Sylvia is a 35-year old woman from Paris who is very involved both "spiritually" and in her life with the Light dimension.
The Dimension of Light Wolinsky:Define light.
  
  

Sylvia: Wolinsky:
Sylvia:
	Absence of dark—Illumination.
Regarding light what have been the consequences in your life if light means the absence of dark?
That there is contrast between light and dark. Light is good/dark is bad. Light makes the nervous system more stimulated with pleasant sensations.
	

  

96
	  

	

The Way of the Human 0 Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter Ill
Wolinsky:Right now, are you still believing these things.
Sylvia:No, it is just a concept.
Wolinsky:Regarding all of this how has another tried to con-
trol you
Sylvia:Teachers have said, it's in the light, light is en-
lightenment.
Woiinsky:Are you still believing that?
Sylvia:No, I did though, but no.
Therapeutic Note
Notice how you have to bring the Archetypes and concepts "on line," "on your screen," in your awareness before you can go beyond them. Otherwise what is organizing you is out of your awareness.
Wolinsky:Regarding light what images have you created?
	Wolinsky:
Sylvia: Wolinsky:
Sylvia
Woiinsky:
Sylvia:
	If you separate ESSENCE and light what does not occur?
The condensation.
If all of this stuff, illumination—light is good, dark is bad—were no longer an issue for you, what would your experience be?
There wouldn't be an experience—everything would just be.
Regarding all these concepts around light, what lies have you told yourself?
That light exists, it matters, makes a difference. my existence depends on it, I am separate from light if I can perceive it—it is real, that there really is a difference between light and dark. GOD IS LIGHT.
	

Sylvia:I have this image of ESSENCE as being full ofWolinsky:Is that true?
light. That's what the Lord said, "Let there be
light."Sylvia:God is a concept—light is a concept.
  
Therapeutic Note
Notice how ESSENCE is fused with light.
Woiinsky:If you fuse together ESSENCE = light, what gets
created?
Sylvia:An experience gets created.
Wolinsky:What is an experience?
Sylvia:Just another concept.
100
Wolinsky:If you separate the concept of GOD from the con-
cept of light what is the experience?
Sylvia:There is no experience.
Wolinsky:Regarding these concepts of light, is there any-
thing you are resisting knowing?
Sylvia:I must now know all this is made up.
Wolinsky:Regarding these concepts, are there any emotions
you are resisting?
101
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psycholog_yChapter 111
  
Sylvia:Sadness.
Wolinsky:Tell me an idea you have about the sadness.
Sylvia:It goes on forever.
Wolinsky:Tell me another idea you have about the sadness.
Sylvia:It is part of the False Core.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea.
Sylvia:Anger is bad, according to the Catholic Church
and nuns.
Wolinsky:Interesting idea.
Sylvia:You know an "I" does not exist, but it seems to
arise when you ask the question.
Therapeutic Note
This is true, "I" is a construct that arises at the level to meet the "external" context.


Therapeutic Noter.Wolinsky:Regarding light; What else should you not expe-  
The False Core is an idea and begins to dissolve when viewed as justrience?
another concept.  
Sad is from another time—it blocks out light, light cannot penetrate sadness. Emotions are the absence of light—sadness has lessons.    
Emotions are the absence of light—sadness has lessons, if that were not true and just a concept, what would your experience be?
I feel angry.
Tell me an idea you have about anger?
Good people never feel it. It is the work of the DEVIL.
Therapeutic Note
Notice the devil Archetype.
Wolinsky:(Laughing) Well, we finally got to the bottom of
it. Any other concepts you have about anger?
Wolinsky:Prior to these concepts about light, how big was  
your consciousness?
Sylvia:Prior to there is no "your consciousness."
Wolinsky:Prior to . . . (outstretched arms), Are you?
Sylvia:Total silence.
Wolinsky:Notice the physical eyes which are perceiving.
Sylvia:Yes.
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum Psychology
Wolinsky:Notice the perceiving and the perception are same.
Sylvia:Silence.
Wolinsky:Now, are you perceiving or are the eyes perceiv-
ing?
________________
Chapter Consciousness is a product of the Electro-Magnetics.
Awareness is a product of the BIG BANG which is a product of the Electro-Magnetics and is the nervous system reflecting upon itself.
There is an Electro-magnetic mechanism which is inside us.
  
  
  
There is an implant or Electro-magnetic mechanism that controls us, placed "in" from (fill in the blank).
The Electro-magnetics makes me believe time is a measure of the illusion of existence.
The Electro-magnetics made me believe I AM.
  
The Electro—Magnetic Dimension
Electricity—Magnets
Electro-Magnetics is Electro,Magnetic
The Electro-Magnetic Mechanism and Cause and Effect
The Electro-Magnetic Mechanism and Light
FAMOUS ARCHETYPES OF THE ELECTRO-MAGNETICS AND THE ELECTRO-MAGNETIC MECHANISM
                     * The "I" came from Electro-Magnetics.
                     * Worship Electro-Magnetics. 104
The Electro-magnetics creates the illusion of liberation or bondage.
The Electro-magnetic mechanism is God and controls me. I am a machine.
The Electro-magnetic mechanism is a mechanism which runs the machine the I call me.
The Electro-magnetic mechanism is put there by aliens, light beings as an experimental game.
The Electro-magnetic mechanism creates the concept of separation by creating the concept of location.
The Electro-magnetic mechanism forces sounds into letters, words, meanings, associations, etc.
10s
                     *     Mantras are used in an attempt to change this "you" to another vibrational pattern at a higher frequency used to change sound patterns in the Electro-magnetic mechanism.
                     * The Electro-magnetic mechanism uses mantras, yantras, and tantras as an attempt to change the "you" to another vibrational pattern, a higher frequency used to change the patterns of perception of the Electro-magnetics
The vibration of sound makes me believe I AM.
                        * The Electro-magnetic mechanism creates a unique sound like a snowflake and, therefore, a unique nervous system, and I AM is just based on its different locations in space-time.
                        * Electro-magnetic mechanism gives the perception that we are all the same—when each sound vibration makes us different only the same through sound which is a by-product of light which is a by-product of the NOTHING.
________________
                        * The sense of I AM is frozen light.
                        * The Electro-magnetic mechanism uses light to create the illusion of a seeER separate from the seen.
                        * The Electro-magnetic mechanism makes you believe there is a you made of light.
                        * The Electro-magnetic mechanism makes "me" believe in enlightenment.
                        * When the light disperses there is no-me.
                        * The Electro-magnetic mechanism makes me believe that there was light first, that there is a first, and that in enlightenment you must or will "see" light, rather than realizing prior to light is Beyond.
                        * I believed there were different lights to be seen and when I see or saw them I would be en-lightened.


ARCHETYPES OF
WAVES AND THE ELECTRO-MAGNETIC MECHANISM
                        * The I AM is a wave created by supertrings.
                        * The "I AM" is the end product of the Superstrings which are first visible through waves.
                        * God is the invisible force which organizes the universe.
	Wolinsky:
Louise:
	DEMONSTRATION #2 ELECTROMAGNETICS Define Electromagnetics.
It is a coiled, powerful field, constructive or destructive, it is measurable, difficult to deal with it, has polarity and a frequency which changes.
	

                        * We call it God because we do not know what to call it. ARCHETYPES OF
THE ELECTRO-MAGNETIC MECHANISM AND THE COLLECTIVE
                        * The Collective is an electro-magnetic field where "energy" patterns take form and have their own life, i.e., a VOID pattern. 106
Wolinsky:Where do you experience this powerful coil field
in your body?
Louise:In my chest.
107
  
  
  
  
  
  
Wolinsky:What assumptions do you have about Electro-
magnetics creating a field with a coil?
Louise:I have to work to keep my body balanced, it was
something that was done to me.
Wolinsky:Because of this structure, what impact has it had
on how you have organized your life?
Louise:I do body and energy work for a living, I alter my
life around energy and electgro-magnetics.
Wolinsky:Regarding this Electro-magnetics field and the coil
what have you done to yourself?
Louise:Isolated and limited my life.
Wolinsky:How does this Electro-magnetics coil seem to you
now?
Louise:Like an implant from another dimension.
Therapeutic Note
Here we see many Archetypes, for example, Gurdjieff refers to the Kundabuffer, a mechanism which makes everything the opposite of what it is. Other new age "spiritual" systems use this implant concept. It should be noted that this is not a put-down but an opportunity to look at what Archetypical Physics Dimension structures which organize your "spiritual path" in order to go beyond them.
Wolinsky:Regarding the Coil—Electra-magnetics implant
how have you deceived yourself?
Louise:Believing it is or has power.
Wolinsky:The Electro-magnetic mechanism, how have you
tried to deceive it? 
________________
Louise:I pretend it is not there.
  
  
Therapeutic Note
We are separating in the languaging her from the Coil-implant that we are calling an Electro-Magnetic Mechanism.
Wolinsky:How has the Electro-magnetic mechants de-
ceived you?
Therapeutic Note
Here, I am trying to give "her" a greater ability to explore the Electromagnetic mechanism as a way to look at its impact and then dismantle it.
Louise:Pretending it is useful.
Wolinsky:How has the Electra-magnetic mechanism de-
ceived itself?
Louise:This is like science fiction. It is as if I am just a
host for this Electro-magnetic mechanism.
Wolinsky:How you doing now?
Shaky.
Where is the Electro-magnetic mechanism now? Is it still in your body?
In the field around my body and in the nervous system.
Does this Electro-magnetic mechanism have any movement?
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Therapeutic Note
Quantum Psychology discovered that the Electro-magnetic mechanism seems to pulsate, so I just want to bring her awareness further into "haw" it works.
  
It pulses, very fast.
Where is it in your body now? Here (stomach).
Is the "I" you call you" a product of the Electromagnetic mechanism?
There is an "I" and an "observer" that is part of the mechanism. The whole thing is part of the mechanism.
Therapeutic Note
Here we see there is no-her separate from the Archetypal Electra-Magnetic Mechanism and that the "I" is a by-product of and part of the Archetype itself.
Wolinsky:How you doing?
Louise:Real good.
________________
Chapter
Louise:Still pulsates and moves in all directions, it moves
around a central core.
Wolinsky:Since the "I" and the observer are by-products of
the I AM which is a by-product of the Electromagnetic mechanism, who is answering the question?
Louise:Silence.
Therapeutic Note
Since the "I" is only a by-product of the Electro-magnetic mechanism, once this is acknowledged there is no Archetype and hence NO-I
Wolinsky:If this mechanism was no longer there would you
be?
Louise:Yes.
Wolinsky:As what?
Therapeutic Note
Here we are going for the I AM associated with the Electra-magnetic mechanism.
  

Wolinsky:Since the "I" and the observer are a product of the
Electro-magnetic mechanism, how does the body seem to you now?
Louise:Solid—much more in it and grounded.
Wolinsky:This Electra-magnetic mechanism, what's its
movement now?
	Louise: Wolinsky: Louise: Wolinsky:
	I don't know, but I know I am not the mechanism. Are you?
I don't know.
Regarding the Electra-magnetic mechanism any frozen emotions the Electro-magnetic mechanism has?
	

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Louise:Anger or rage because the Electro-magnetic
mechanism does not want to be dismantled, it wants the force to remain.
Wolinsky:If the Electro-magnetic mechanism were no longer
there, would you be?
Louise:The body would be—BUT- NO ME.
Wolinsky:Does the Electro-magnetic mechanism have any
frozen motivations?
Louise:To continue itself.
Wolinsky:Everything the Electro-magnetic mechanism does,
it does for itself?
Louise:Yes, it is self-perpetuating.
Wolinsky:Anything the Electro-magnetic mechanism must
not know?
Louise:It must not know anything about being human.
Wolinsky:To the Electro-magnetic mechanism, what is a
human.
Louise:A host.
Wolinsky:Is the body a vehicle for the Electro-magnetic
mechanism or does the Electro-magnetic mechanism make it appear as though there is an "I" with a body that is part of it, when actually it is not? In other words, Is the body a host for the Electromagnetic mechanism, or does the Electro-magnetic mechanism make the body appear and perceive when the body-mind complex is actually a creation of the Electro-magnetic mechanism?
112
Chapter HI
Louise:The second part (I can't say it).
Wolinsky:Are you?
Louise:Silence. Who the hell knows?
Wolinsky:Anything you want to say.
Louise:Silence.
THE PHYSICS DIMENSION OF GRAVITY ARCHETYPES FROM THE GRAVITATIONAL DIMENSION
                        * Gravity is what holds me down.
                        * Gravity is what holds me together and the universe.
                        * I have to resist Gravity.
                        * I am Gravity.
                        * I have to overcome Gravity.
                        * I am solid.
DEMONSTRATION #3
ON GRAVITY
Wolinsky:Define Gravity.
Alice:Gravity is a force which holds one on earth, I feel
like I must have gravity to not go into space, it
feels like it is grounded and holds things together.
113
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
	  

	Chapter ill
	Wolinsky:Regarding holding things together, what assump-Alice:Sensation in your body, I associate with WANT.
  
Lions have you made about gravity?
Cant things and that things need to be held together.
Therapeutic Note
Wolinsky:As a result of having these assumptions what hasIn this interchange I want her to get that, first, there are sensations in
occurred in your life?her body which she decides means WANTING.
  

Alice:I have had limited ideas about myself. I have feltWolinsky:Regarding gravity as force which holds things to-
like I have to hold myself together, I have together, what have you done to yourself?
change something to have freedom I have to see  
myself as solid which is desirable rather than ex-Therapeutic Note
panding or exploding.Here I want to go back to the initial issue: gravity as a force which
  
holds things together.
Therapeutic Note
There were so many ideas she had about herself, I decided to haveAlice:I have to contain and hold things together which
her explore the ideas she had about herself which are not her.is important.


Tell me an idea you have about yourself? I am limited.  
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea you have about yourself.
There's a limited amount of time I have to do something.  
That's an interesting idea. How do you know you want to do something?
By a thought or a past feeling.
________________
Wolinsky:According to what or whom?
Alice:Therapy world, society, etc., mom-dad.
Wolinsky:Where in your body do you experience this con-
tainer or controller?
Alice:Chest.
Wolinsky:Intentionally solidify the container, clamp down
the container giving yourself less space.
Alice:This feels terrible.
  
  
  
Wolinsky:What does WANT mean?
________________
Now, let the container do whatever it does. How's that?
  
Alice:I want to laugh.Alice:            
Therapeutic Note
Next, I want to externalize the container.Wolinsky:
  
Wolinsky:What have you done to the container?
Alice:Yes, they are both related to the container.  
Wolinsky:How are you doing?
Wolinsky:Is the "I" which is part of the container, believing
Alice:Lighter.the container right now?
Wolinsky:Where is the container now in relationship to youAlice:No
  
body now?
Wolinsky:How are you doing now?
Alice:Shimmering inside and outside the walls of the
room.Alice:Like a line in my core.
  

Wolinsky:How have you tried to deceive the container?Wolinsky:Regarding this container is there a gravitational
collapse around this central core?
Wolinsky:Why would you want to deceive the container?
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter III  


Wolinsky:Tell me an emotion that emerges from that col-
lapsing around the central core.
Alice:Safetydiscomfort, and alone.
Therapeutic Note
Here Alice has moved beyond the False Core-False Self of I am Alone. I hope to effortlessly connect her to her Essential Core with no judgement, evaluation or significance about it.


  
  

Wolinsky:
	So the alone identity is part of the collapse. Is the "I am alone" Identity part of the collapse, or part of you?
	They are the same.
Are you it?
No.
What's happening now? Spacious.
Therapeutic Note
Once the container and the False Core are gone beyond, there is just the Essential quality of spaciousness.
	  
Is the alone the by-product of the collapse?
Yes, no collapse, no alone. I am really blown away by this. I feel a different connection with the whole room.
How do you feel different?
I am getting energy shots from everyone, like a veil has dropped. I feel like I am sitting feeling connected to everyone.
Wolinsky:How does that Essential core seem to you now?    
Alice:A jelly quality.
Therapeutic Note
Since psychology is a by-product of the biology—no collapse, no psychology
Wolinsky:Regarding the container how did it deceive you?
Alice:Like I have to respond to it.
Wolinsky:Is the "I" that feels like it has to respond to the
container part of the container structure itself?
Alice:Oh, yes.
Therapeutic Note
"The experiencER is contained within the experience." Nisargadatta Maharaj
Wolinsky:The container and the experience are part of the
container—but it is not you?
Alice:Yes.
Wolinsky:If there was no container or gravity thing, would
there be a "you"?
Alice:Yes.
Wolinsky:Where?
  
Alice:I have no idea.Alice:Laughs... (Silence)
There's a sense of all of me merging with every-
Wolinsky:Can you describe how you would not be if therething else and I feel disoriented.
was no container?
Therapeutic Note
Alice:Well, it's prior toI don't have words for thatHere we can see that the skin boundaries at this level are illusory and
anymore. (Silence.)that the body is made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE.
Wolinsky:How are you doing now?Wolinsky:How does this central gravitation core seem to you
now—or do you have one?
Alice:The container has a fear of non-existence.
Alice:No.
Therapeutic Note
Here the gravity container which contains the "I am Alone" FalseWolinsky:The gravity central core concept and idea, called
Core is trying to escape to the "I don't exist" False Core which is part"you," if all of them were no longer held together
of the gravity container.by this concept of a "you," what would happen?
Wolinsky:The identity which has a fear of non-existence, is
part of the container?
Alice:Yes, the container wants to survive.
Wolinsky:Anything the container is resisting knowing?
Alice:That it does not exist, and that it does not want to
explode.
Wolinsky:Any place you feel this exploding impulse?
Alice:Skin—but I feel no line of demarcation between
skin boundaries and everything else right now—each molecule wants to explode out.
Wolinsky:Let that happen.
________________
Alice:There would be just this silence whatever.
Laughs...Silence-no words.
DARK MATTER: THE INVISIBLE FORCE
Ninety percent of the universe is said to be made up of Dark Matter. Scientists know it is there but they do no know what it is. Still, Dark matter as an Archetype affects all of us as will be demonstrated below by Dark Matter—the Invisible Force.
FAMOUS ARCHETYPES OF DARK MATTERTHE INVISIBLE FORCE
                        * There is an invisible force.
                        * This invisible force rules the universe.
                        * I must figure out the dark matter.
                        * Everything exists in different dimensions and different universes.
120121
                        *   The seen is all there is.
                        * The un-seen is all there is.
                        * There is no seer or seen.
                           * Surrender to the unseen.
                           * The VOID is the dark matter which is the covering or lid into the wormholes which lead into other dimensions.
The dark matter is the unseen world.
                           * The dark matter rules the seen and unseen world.
                           * I can get information from the dark matter.
                           * Dark matter is the devil.
                           * If I could see the unseen, know the unknown I would be free.
                           * Worship the dark matter.
                           * Gurus exist in other dimensions to help. people understand this Dark matter.
________________
Bob:Something must be there because I do such strange
things. The original primary soup, or primary energy, undifferentiated. The place where everything comes from and gets created.
Wolinsky:What assumptions have you made given these
definitions?
Bob:There must be something "behind" all of this.
Wolinsky:What have been the life consequences?
Bob:The Eternal Search and an eternal searcher .
Therapeutic Note
This is a clear Archetype: The search for the Holy Grail, search for truth, etc., the Seeker Identity, the seeker after truth or enlightenment.
Wolinsky:Regarding this eternal searcher and eternal search,
what has this concept (Archetype) done to another.
Bob:It has done—not this not that.
Therapeutic Note
This is the Vedanta Archetype ("Not-This-Not-This).


  
Dark Matter: That something you know is there, but you can't quite see, feel or "get" but you know "it" is there.
DEMONSTRATION #4
Wolinsky:Define Dark matter (this "something" that you
somehow know is there but you don't know what it is).
________________
Wolinsky:
Bob:
Wolinsky:
Bob:
________________
Regarding the eternal seeker what has the Archetype done to itself looking for the eternal soup.
It suggested the concept of a me which is not complete.    
Where in this body do you feel this Archetypical concept of a "me" which is not complete?
In the chest.
  
  
  
  
  
Put an image of the Archetype over there (another location in the room). And now take'the label off of the concept, called the "me" which is not complete in your chest. Have it as energy and allow it to go back to the Archetype.
NOW
Regarding this whole eternal search and eternal seeker who searches but never gets there but is always searching. Wherever you feel this, take the label off. Let it go back to the Archetype.
________________
Therapeutic Note
Here we see how the Archetype can only re-enforce itself by coming up with Archetypical techniques.
  
Anywhere in that body where you experience this tendency to learn techniques and methods, take the label off, give it back to the Archetype. If this Archetype was no longer there, would the concept of a "you" be there?
Bob:I feel I am alone.
Bob:Okay.
Wolinsky:Regarding this eternal seeker-search Archetype,
how has the seeker or searcher deceived another?
Bob:By getting others to believe or seek that which is
greater than themselves.
Wolinsky:How has another deceived the eternal searcher on
an eternal search or eternal quest Archetype?
Bob:Same way.
Wolinsky:How has the seeker deceived itself?
Bob:By believing that.
Wolinsky:How are you doing?
Bob:Everything dissolves.
Wolinsky:Regarding this eternal seeker, eternal search Ar-
chetype, how has it tried to control itself?
Bob:Learning techniques and methods to continue it-
self.
124
Wolinsky:Notice where in body and take the label off. Let it
go back to the Archetype. What if anything is occurring now?
Bob:Nothing is there anymore.
Wolinsky:If there is no "you" fused with the eternal-searcher
Archetype, what occurs?
Bob:. . . Silence.
Wolinsky:What if anything is occurring now?
Bob:Silence.
Wolinsky:Are you?
Bob:. . . (Absolute silence.)
DEMONSTRATION #5
  
DARK MATTER: THE INVISIBLE WORLD Define Dark Matter.
125
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Fred:The Unknown, the back there . . . the unknown.
Dark Matter is so much bigger than 'the known. The Unknown has unlimited potential. The mind is always trying to conceptualize and make sense of this unknown.
Wolinsky:Does the Dark Matter contain volition, witness-
ing, preferences and a free will?
Fred:Whatever is trying to observe it does not know if
it has volition, free will or preferences. The observer wants to merge.
Therapeutic Note
It is important to note whether the person is anthropomorphizing, i.e., projecting human qualities onto the unknown (Dark Matter).
Secondly, this is like the Archetype of a wave in the ocean thinking it is separate from the ocean and trying to merge with the ocean, which it is already merged with.
Wolinsky:What assumptions do you have about this dark
matter, Unknown. Chapter ill
Therapeutic Note
The seeker after truth the unknown is an Archetype.
Wolinsky:Has the external become a reflection and by-prod-
uct of this seeker after truth Archetype? In other words, is there a reflected reflection which will figure this reflection merger thing out. What lies has the reflector-reflected mechanism told itself?
Therapeutic Note
Here again we are exploring the mechanism which is now called the reflector-reflected, which also contains deep elements of an age-regressed infant wanting morn (the unknown) to reflect back to him, grant him grace, etc.
Fred: That it will eventually know and become itself.
Therapeutic Note
Here we can see the spiritual dilemma of trying to accumulate knowledge and also the illusion of the spiritual "growth" archetypical treadmill of trying to accumulate knowledge and merit (be good).
  
  
  

Wolinsky:What have you done in your life because you have
believed this?
Fred: Seeking—intense desire to merge, I have felt separate, I have wanted to go prior to my birth to find the truth. I've wanted the external to reflect back to me.
126
________________
Fred:Yes.
Therapeutic Note
Next, I want to include the observer as part of this reflector-reflected mechanism.
127
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Wolinsky:What lie could the observer of the reflector-re-
flected process tell the reflector-reflected process, or better yet, is there a "you" separate from this or is there no you separate from this.
Therapeutic Note
Prior to theinfant-observer-reflector-reflector is prior to an "I" or a
Li
me .
Fred:There is NO-ME. The image emerges out of the
NOTHING and slowly it solidifies.
Wolinsky:Does the reflector-reflected process have anything
it should not experience?
Fred:It's own dissolution.
Wolinsky:Why would it not want to experience its own dis-
solution.
Fred:Because then it would not be.
Woiinsky:Do you have an assumption that "you are?"
Fred:Not at the moment, everything just IS.
Chapter HI
Fred: Wolinsky:
Fred: Wolinsky:
	No.
If you did not associate with the observer-reflector-reflected process at all would there be such a thing as consciousness?
No, consciousness is just as an idea.
Does this idea of consciousness have something to do with a "you" or the observer-reflector-reflected process?
	

Fred:With it. There is NO ME.
THE ULTIMATE ARCHETYPE THE I AM
The I AM represents the ultimate Archetype. It is contained within most everyone, remains unquestioned, and you could not say anything is or was unless that I AM were there. Nisargadatta Maharaj's basic teaching was, "Hold onto the I AM, let go of everything else." For "him," the I AM was the root or seed from which your separate universe sprouted. To stay in the I AM and let go of everything else undercuts the False Core-False Self. He felt ("I" imagine) that ultimately this Archetype would disappear, at which point the realization that there is no "you" or "I" would be revealed.
DEMONSTRATION #6      
Define I AM.
The place where I look from—the place where people address me.
By your having this definition, the place where I look from and the place where people address me. What assumptions do you have?
  
128129
  

Chapter 111                            
Regarding I AM is a place you look from and "my life," etc., how has the concept of I AM or I AM NOT deceived themselves?
By identifying and believing in themselves.
If the concept of I AM and the concept of I AM NOT have no location or address, notice what your eperience is.
.. (Silence.)
This I AM-I AM NOT concept. Is there anything those two concepts must not experience?
if "I" ask the concepts they don't like the idea I know they are concepts.
What must these concepts called I AM-AM NOT, what must they not know?
They are just concepts.
Notice how the concept called I AM-I AM NOT, notice how it could also create the concepts of space, "my space," me," etc. Prior to all that, was there a thing called consciousness or non-consciousness?
  
If I AM NOT is separate from non-existence, what occurs?      
________________
No, consciousness seems like a concept too.
After the concept of I AM-I AM NOT, space, my space occurred—was there a thing called consciousness?
Edward:Yes.  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter III
Wolinsky:Does this concept called I AM-I AM NOT or evenWolinsky:Anything?
the blankness or "my space" have anything to do
with "you"?Edward:...Silence.
Edward:No.
Below is another demonstration to look at theArchetype I
  
Regarding this Archetypical concept called I AM, etc., does it belong to anyone at all?    
It belongs to itself but not necessarily to anyone in particular.
If the Archetypical concept of I AM-I AM NOT is thinned-out, what, if anything, occurs?
. . . (Silence.) It feels prior to anything like falling. NOTHING.
This is a real. Nisargadatta Maharaj question, "How did you get the idea that the I AM-I AM NOT was you?"
It was not "my" idea.
The idea came from "what" or "where?" It is an idea, and it is NOT.
Does the concept of I AM-1 AM NOT have the idea of ownership, location etc.?
It's all thoughts.
So, it has nothing to do with anything? . (Silence.) Yeah.
________________
DEMONSTRATION #7
THE I AM
Define the I AM  
It is what is and I AM
What assumptions have you made about this IS- I AM
That the IS is and I AM is what Is.
  
  
Karen:By believing it IS and I AM
Wolinsky:Now, I know it is doing that-does it have any-
thing to do with "you"
Karen:No
Wolinsky:Regarding this IS-I AM thing how has it deceived
another?
Karen:We all believed it and that I AM the I AM and
YOU ARE the I AM
Therapeutic Note
Next we use the word "desire " to describe the biological desire of the IS-I AM mechanism,
Wolinsky:Any frozen desires that this IS-I AM thing has?
Karen:To be
Wolinsky:What does BE mean?
Karen:Be means AM to it, (The IS-I AM mechanism)
Wolinsky:And to "you"
Karen:Blank
Therapeutic Note
The blank is the NON-VERBAL I AM.
Wolinsky:If the I AM—IS—YOU ARE thing was no
longer—ARE YOU?
Karen:What is a you?
134
Therapeutic Note  
No IS-or verbal I AM, no psychology, hence, NO-YOU or "I."
Wolinsky:So you only are if this "I AM"—IS—"you"
mechanism archetype is identified and fused with
Karen:Yes
Wolinsky:Anything?
Karen:. . . (Silence.)
Therapeutic Note
Once the verbal I AM-IS is gone beyond, the False Core-False Self and all "subjective" psychology too is gone beyond. Then only the NON-VERBAL 1AM might remain or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS,
THE ARCHETYPE REVIEW
Archetypes can be viewed as a condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS forming what "our" nervous system views as a pattern emerging from any possible number of combinations of the Physics Dimensions of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces, etc. To review the process, let us begin with the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. The VOID is pure NOTHINGNESS, and to paraphrase again, noted physicist John Wheeler, "NOTHINGNESS is the building block of the universe." However, the NOTHINGNESS or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS has the quality of being "potentially" everything.
It should be noted that unlike many current theories which believe that "you" (solidified VOID) can control, create, or co-create "your" universe, Quantum Psychology understands that the VOID condenses and creates what you call "you." "Condensing" down into "form", the VOID contracts, forming the Physics Dimensions, then
135
  
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology  
further contracting to create what appears as patterns which Jung called Archetypes. Nisargadatta Maharaj called the plimary primal Archetype I AM. The COLLECTIVE UNCONSCIOUSNESS contains all of the Archetypical combinations (forming a pattern). Each Archetypical story or myth is a contraction of the Physics Dimensions of energy, space, mass, time, gravity, electromagnetics, strong and weak forces, which is the condensed VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS (called the SELF in India). When the contracted VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS further contracts, it forms the individual unconscious mind. This personal unconscious further contracts and forms our conscious minds, with individual sets of beliefs and attitudes which separate us from other people.
ARCHETYPICAL DISTORTIONS NOT TRUE ARCHETYPES
Quantum Psychology defines unreal Archetypes as follows:
Untrue Archetype:
1) Dissociated and Substituted Resisted Experiences
What this means is that rather than the Archetype manifesting "you" through a direct condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, which is from the top (VOID) down to "You"—THE VOID-4COLLECTIVE----> ARCHETYPES--*"YOU" which is a real archetype—"you" (your nervous system) create' the concept of an archetype to organize chaos. This archetype appears as universal but since it actually is a form of resistance, it is even more condensed VOID. For example, if Mom is mean and the you cannot handle what is happening, you dissociate. In the dissociative state, a wicked witch Archetype might be created by your nervous system. But this is not a true Archetype. A true Archetype is a condensation of the VOID (top) which becomes the col-
'It should be noted that ultimately there is no YOU which creates, there is only the expansion and contraction of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS in which a "you" appears and then imagines it creates or has volition, preferences. or choices. In reality, there is only the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS.  
136
Chapter HI
lective unconscious forming Archetypes (from the top down), rather than a dissociative state created by a resisted experience of the personal conscious mind (from the bottom to the illusion of spiritual which appears as up (toward the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS) but is rather more solidified than the personal conscious mind.
Untrue Archetype:
2) Developmental Archetypical distortions
Let's say an infant has illusionary experiences of Mom as greater than life, a being with all the answers, whose grace brings life and keeps the family alive while her disgrace is seen as a withdrawal of love, approval, etc. This is another dissociative state, whereby parents are made into gods. This too is not a direct condensation of the VOID (top down) or a manifestation of the COLLECTIVE UNCONSCIOUS. Instead, it represents a resisted experience of the personal conscious mind and, hence, gives the illusion of going from personal to VOID when rather it goes from the personal to more solid spiritualized and rigidified and a further bottom.
In Chapter 14 of The Dark Side of the Inner Child: The Next Step, I refer to transpersonal transference, a process whereby the child transfers unresolved developmental relationship with their parents onto God, a guru, a path, a system or a technique. For example, a child learns how to win grace or if they are bad, falling from Mom and Dad's grace. The transpersonal transference can be traced directly to this child-parent relationship which is then trance-ferred onto a God, with rigid standards and rules. This can be seen as a way of understanding people's experience of a loving or, contrarily, a wrathful God. But this is not a true Archetype (from the top down; VOID-+ARCHETYPE). These are Archetypical developmental distortions which move from the bottom up (Conscious/ unconscious--►yielding a great solidity and a False Archetype and False spirituality).
A true Archetype is a primal universal pattern which occurs through a direct contraction of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTI. ATED CONSCIOUSNESS and comes directly from a contraction
137
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
of the Pysics Dimensions and Forces. It is that which makes what "you" call you "you." This is not created out of a disso6ation caused by resisting a present-time experience. The pain or pleasure occurs when we do not appreciate the Archetypical pattern, but rather fuse with it, identify with it, imagine it is us and hence "act it out," either externally in the world or by trying to integrate a part of us (which is also an Archetype). Repressed spiritualization (creating a false spirituality through denial or repression), is from the personal bottom to a deeper bottom a personal unconscious dissociative spiritual which is more solid rigidified and defended not from the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS (top) down. To illustrate this False Archetypical developmental distortion, VOID—*superstrings--+ Physics Dimensions-4collective unconsciousness and Archetypes--+ personal unconsciousness—►ersonal conscious mind—►more unconscious mind---dissociative spiritual.
In other words, with repressed spirituality, it is from the bottom to a more solidified dissociated bottom—if I don't like my mother, the personal "I" represses and moves from the bottom down and uses spiritualization as a defense. This is not an Archetype but rather a fotiti of repression which gives the illusion of an Archetype. With a true Archetype things go from the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS to solidity. Those Archetypes which express repressed dissociative spirituality move from conscious or unconscious solidity to the illusion of spirituality, which is even more solidity.  
In other words when we move from the bottom to the illusion of up going to the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, we are actually moving down and becoming more solid and defensive.' This is why spiritualized people are so rigidified. They appear more spacious when actually they are more rigidified and defended.
This explains why people who are more spiritualized have so many rules and regulations and such a rigidified life.
'It should be noted there is no top or bottom. Here we are saying top meaning less solid, thinned-out or pure VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. Quantum Psychology is only discussing it in this way as a discussion. Because whether it is solid, thinned-out or more solid, it is still only the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS (see Chapter V, the VOID).  
________________
Chapter HI
Then why we are certain things are so universal? Because there seems to be universal psychological dissociative defenses which become spiritualized False Archetypes. This, of course, is only true if we as the VOID use the lens of Archetypes—NO LENSES NO ARCHETYPES.
For example, let's imagine your mother is crazy and you resist it. So in your relationship with her there's a lot of repressed anger. You then create an internalized "good, all knowing" mother as a defense against the "crazy" mother. But this good mother is not an Archetype since an Archetype is a direct flow formed from the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. If I am going from VOID to form to greater form, creating a dissociative form or repression of form—this is not an Archetype. It can be said that the handling of unwanted stimuli (crazy mother) through dissociation and spiritualization is universal. Still, its last departure point is not from the COLLECTIVE but from the personal "I." To determine whether it is an Archetype or repressed spiritualization—ask "yourself," Where was its departure point? Archetypes arise as direct condensations of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. Spiritual-dissociation arises from greater condensation, dissociation and repression of the personal unconscious, yielding greater rigidity of character, more rules, more defenses and in a word, False spirituality, laden with dogma, rules and ritual.
THE SEPARATION MYTH
Many religions are based on a myth or story of separation, that something happened, such as Eve and Adam eating the apple, and suddenly human beings were separated from God. From a Quantum Psychology perspective, this myth is not an Archetype but rather a spiritualization to defend against the shock of the Realization of Separation from the mother. Mother is spiritualized and turned into God. The False Core gives the reason for separation (original sin) and is thus created as way to organize with the separation from God/ Mom, i.e., if I have a reason as to why it occurred I can be in control by imagining overcoming the reason overcomes the chaos."


US
	  

	139
	

  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology        
This being born with or into original sin and then thrown out of the kingdom of God is a spiritualized metaphor for the natural shock of the Realization of Separation and the creation of the False Core to explain the reason why we go through this process.
Is the process universal? Yes. But is it Archetypical? No. Quantum Psychology would say the process is a function of the nervous system to abstract, project and spiritualize (if necessary) as a way to explain (organize) the chaos of and "survive," in this case, the shock of separation.
  
You did nothing wrong. Are you a bad sinner which is why you are separate from God (Morn)? Do you imagine you were cursed? Were you thrown out of the kingdom of heaven? No. Your nervous system simply created a story, and religion to "get back to Morn/ God. God does not have a nervous system. To think that God has a nervous system with wants, volition, preferences, etc., is anthropomorphic (the process of projecting human qualities onto something which does not even possess a nervous system). For example, it is anthropomorphic to think He (Dad–+God) was displeased because you were bad and now you must be punished and, henceforth, prove your worth(overcome your False Core) to reach oneness or nirvana (merging with him) again.    
  
The shift from God as "Him" to God as "Her" is a further dissociation and defense against the shock of the Realization of Separation. The identification and fusion with DAD as the perfect model or "how to" get MOM to fuse and be one with you, later becomes the path. Unfortunately, this "spiritual path" can sometimes take you further away from the pain of the shock and from the realization of separation and the False Core Driver-False Self Compensator. In this way, you dissociate further from your humanity and further from stabilizing in ESSENCE-I AM, etc.
  
The search for enlightenment, Heaven and the cessation of pain can be either Archetypical or a spiritualized False Self created to overcome the False Core which is biologically based. The biology is compulsively trying to survive and overcome pain. . . .
The Way of the Human e Beyond Quantum Psychology
CONCLUSION
"To find out who you are you must first find out who you are not."  
Nisargadatta Maharaj
Why explore Archetypes as manifestations of the Physics Dimension? Because unquestioned Archetypes—be they "spiritual" or "psychological" are still condensations of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE.  
In order to discover the primordial you, THE SELF, the archetypical representations, which we do not know are archetypical, must be gone beyond.
Why does acting-out of an Archetype get in the way of discovering WHO YOU ARE? Because the I which is doing and acting-out the Archetype is part of the Archetype. YOU are beyond all Archetypes or as Nisargadatta Maharaj said, "Anything you think you are you are not."
'It should be noted there is no where or location, but language is limiting in explaining what cannot be described.  
  

The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter IV
THE OBSERVER: A REVIEW
As mentioned in Volume IL the observer initia y appears to have three aspects:
It observes. Actually it is an observing ego in reference to the observing ego, Jung said that the consciousness while it is the "ego" needs to be differentiated from the "observing ego". The psyche not only includes the knowing ego but the ability to observe itself in the very process of knowing and being. It is a thought the ego has established, the fact that I am here, while the observing ego knows that I am here knowing that I am here."
                           2. It appears to create what it observes, though this too is an illusion; the observer imagines it is the source of the thought, experience, etc.'
                           3. The observer appears to come prior, to be senior to—as if it existed before the observed—that which it is observing, which it does not, the observer arises and subsides with that which it observes.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
The observer and the observed are one and they arise and subside together as one piece.
THE WITNESS
Going beyond the observer-observed dyad leads us to the WITNESS.
The WITNESS is the one who is aware of the observer-observed dyad and is unaffected by it. It can be said that the WITNESS is the "NOT-I-I" since it does not have an identity but is pure awareness. In other words, it contains awareness of the observer-observed dyad yet remains unaffected by it. It is an "I" as pure awareness, being aware of the BIG EMPTINESS and yet remaining unaffected by the observer-observed (experience). The NOT-I-I appears "later," or is more solified, than the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS or the no-me of Samadhi where awareness—as well as the WITNESS itself—dissolves because even the WITNESS has an AwarER and hence is an "I-I."
NOT-I-I EXERCISE #1


THE QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY BREAKTHROUGH
Quantum Psychology had two breakthroughs regarding the observer. The first was the realization that, in reality, the observer and the observed are one unit which arises and subsides simultaneously. The second was that there is not one observer but rather an infinite number of observer-observed dyads. Each new experience has a different observer which arises and subsides with it.
We use the word appear to denote an illusion of being, which it appears to have—but it does not have.  
'The observer does not create what it observes. This is a great distortion.
144
Be aware, WITNESS, the space between the arising and subsiding of the observer-observed dyad.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
The "NOT-I-I" is the last way-station for awareness. It is the destroyer of the imagined separation of the observer from the observed whereby we imagine the observer came before the observed, which creates the illusion of time. The observer-observed arose and will subside together, and neither arose and subsided together. The idea of before is an idea of the observer only. In the NOT-I-I and the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS there is no before or prior, everything arises and will subside as one piece in NOTIME-TIME.
145
  
  
  
  
  
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum Psychology
THE OBSERVER AND THE WITNESS
The observer is part of the observed, The WITNESS is pure awareness beyond the observer-observed dyad.
Many systems confuse observation and WITNESSING. For example, if I watch a thought—but think I am the " which is watching—then I am observing.
If I move "my" arm, and believe it is "I" which moves the arm—then I am observing.
If I watch with judgment, evaluation or significance, then it is observing.
The WITNESS, on the other hand, is aware, but is not identified with an experiencer or an exerpience nor is it identified with an "I" which is observing it. The WITNESS is beyond even mindfulness, such as "I " am mindful of a psychological pattern.
The WITNESS is pure awareness. The WITNESS is amazed at what occurs. The WITNESS it is not an "I" or a pattern, and neither exists nor not exists. It is aware of the BIG NOTHING "behind it," and maybe even an observer-observed dyad. It is aware and rests in between the I AM and the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS "where" even the "NOT-I-I" and awareness itself disappear.
DEMONSTRATION #1
This demonstration explores the NOT I-I Process. Wolinsky:What is EMPTINESS?
Claudia:The emptiness is this dark, empty space and I feel
alone, which I am.
Therapeutic Note:
Notice how the identity of "I am alone" is fused with the empty label and she assumes it is her, and I am.
________________
Chapter /V
Take the label off, I just am. Now, if you fuse together the dark, empty label equals alone, what gets resisted?
The vastness. It's like I am resisting this vast "Not I."
Notice the vastness and in present time, right now, decide that it is not I and this alone concept is the I.
Yeah.
Do that again.
Okay. That's very familiar. I don't like it. Do it again.
Yeah.
Stop doing it. Now, reverse it. Make the "I am alone" the NOT-I and the "vastness" the "I."
That's really the way it is. Okay. How are you feeling?
Okay. It's almost like there is nothing going on. I'm just here. This body, it's like a shell or something. Like a film. It's interesting. Like there is this little definition. Like this diffuse expansive NOTHINGNESS. And then it kind of condenses and forms little entities. And yet this goes right there in that entity and it's really like a film, a layer. It's interesting. It's like being here and not here at the same time. Being here like this entity
146147
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Chapter IV
Now, for a second, be in the BIG EMPTINESS. Eyes opened or closed. Image yourself being one with your mother. And in deciding, since your mother can do all these great things, that therefore, you can do them because you are one with her. Now, very slowly begin to have her separate from you. Slowly. Now, realize that she is separate from you. Conclude that the separation means I am alone. Notice how the BIG EMPTINESS becomes the small emptiness (as in a lack) and becomes the trigger for "I am alone."
Right.
Now, keeping the awareness of the emptiness infused with the belief structure, "I am alone" and concluding that this emptiness is a proof of that. If you fuse together "I am alone" with the emptiness, what are you creating?
Separation, alienation, tightness, prison.
If you fuse together emptiness and alone, what are you not creating?
Not creating not creating.
Good. And if you fuse this emptiness with I am alone, what are you resisting?
The emptiness.
Now, if you separate the emptiness from I am alone, take a moment to do that. In other words, allow the conclusion and all the energy of that conclusion to separate from the emptiness. If you separate that, what is the experience?
149
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Claudia:It's quiet, peaceful, expansive, calm, EMPTY
(BIG), not a whole lot going on.
Wolinsky:If you separate it, what does not occur?
Claudia:All that tension, anguish, prison, confinement, iso-
lation.
Wolinsky:Okay, and if you separate it, what if anything gets
resisted?
Claudia:The lack of boundaries gets resisted.
________________
Chapter Ri
Wolinsky:But deep down knowing that you couldn't?
Claudia:Yeah.
Wolinsky:Now, notice the not I and the I. Move your aware-
ness outside of the I and the not I and see the I and the not I as the same substance. How are you doing?
Claudia:Good. Really expanded and spacious.
EXERCISE: THE NOT I-I
What did you assume, decide or believe that got a lack of definition to be resisted?  
There's no I.
Now, did you decide that one of the reasons that
you are no longer one with your mother was be-
cause you had no definitions and there was no I?
Precisely.
And since you decided this was true, I have no definitions and no I, therefore, that is the reason I am separate and alone, what then did you decide to do since you decided that?  
I decided that in order to have an "I" I have to be alone.  
And to make sure that you fuse with everything around to reinforce that I?
Attempt to fuse with everything around.
________________
Step 1WITNESS, being aware of the BIG EMPTINESS
Step 2Notice the observer of any Identity and the Identity it-    
self.
Step 3Being aware of the BIG EMPTINESS. Label the BIG
EMPTINESS and the WITNESS as "not I."
Step 4Label any Identity as "I."
Exercise: Part II
Step IWITNESS being aware of the BIG EMPTINESS
Step 2Notice the observer of any Identity and the Identity it-
self.
Step 3Being aware of the BIG EMPTINESS. Label the BIG
EMPTINESS and the Witness as "not I."
Step 4Label any Identity as "I."
Step 5Change and have the WITNESS and the BIG EMPTI-
NESS as "I" and the observer and the identities as "not I.
BEYOND KORZYBSKI
This exercise is called "Beyond Korzybski" because he correctly saw that the nervous system organizes experience. Korzybski said that the event (quantum) level was not perceivable by the ner-
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum Psychology
vous system, which is also correct. What he did not understand, however, was that the nervous system is also condensed EMPTINESS and, hence, an abstraction of the Quantum world rather than the other way around. Metaphorically and anthropomorphically speaking, the Quantum world is an ocean and the nervous system a wave. The wave (nervous system) is only aware of the ocean from its own limited point of view.
But Korzybski did not appreciate that the nervous system was a by-product of the condensed quantum EMPTINESS or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. Because of this lack of understanding he could only claim in 1933 that EMPTINESS was incorrect and should be called Fullness or phelum. His misunderstanding was partly the result of the lack of scientific data at that time. Actually it is neither EMPTINESS or FULLNESS—because in order to call it that there would have to be an "I" (Nervous System) there to say it was so. Furthermore, he could not know, for example, what the eminent physicist Dr. Stephen Hawking would say in A Brief History of Time that "in the beginning there was NOTHINGNESS."
NOT-I- EXERCISE #3
Step I:
Step II:
	Look at your experience. For example, if it is an experience of sadness, for example, take the label off of sadness and have it as energy.
Next, take off the label of energy (since energy too is a label). Then notice and dive into the vast NOTHINGNESS of the "NOT-I-I" and pure awareness.
	

THE TENDENCIES OF THE VOID
The NOT-I-I is the last touchstone before awareness, and the awarER disappears. Upon the contraction of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS certain "tendencies" or characteristics seem to predominant as the "I" begins to solidify. The mind (condensed VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CON-
152
Chapter IV  
SCIOUSNESS) is organized around believing in time and in the future. These are major constructs which organize and solidify the mind.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:  
The VOID contracts to become the mind. But in the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS there is no future. The mind (condensed VOID) resists this and creates an idea of future.
Time is involved in the entire construction of the mind, or the individual "I". But, again, in the "NOT-I-I" there is neither past, present nor future.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Being here now is not being in time, or location. The now is not in time, it is in NO-TIME-NOW.
"I" STRUCTURES
The next VOID tendency is the belief that you have to have a reason to do, be, have or create. In the "NOT-I-I" there is neither reason nor purpose. The nervous system has an automatic part of the new brain which creates reasons and stories to justify experiences. Reasons, justifications and purposes only perpetuate and justify the structure of the "I."
Much of the "I's" self-talk is about having reasons, imagining you should have reasons, and imagining reasonable "answers" to questions another might ask you. This occurs in childhood because parents insist on reasons. Reasons are like a virus that infects us all, eating away much of our awareness.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
The External dimension, Thinking dimension, Emotional di-
mension and Biological dimension, are all a unit which arise
153
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
  
  
  
Wolinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Woiinsky: Michael: Wolinsky :
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky: Michael: Woiinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky:
________________
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of energy.
It moves things and people.
That's an interesting idea. Are there any other concepts about the concept of energy?
No.
Tell me a concept about the concept of solidness? Solidness pulsates.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept about the concept of solidness.
Solidness comes and goes.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept about the concept of solidness.
There aren't any.
Tell me a concept about the concept of space. It's full.
Okay, that's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of space.
It's empty.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of space.
________________
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Woiinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Wolinsky:
Michael: Woiinsky:
Michael:
________________
It pulsates.
That's an interesting concept. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of space,  
Silence. (No response.)
Tell me a concept you have about the concept of time.
There is no time.
That's an interesting concept. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of time.
It's all happening at once.
That's an interesting concept. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of time.
I'm out of time.
That's an interesting concept. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of time.
Time happens.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of time.
I thought I didn't have any.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another concept you have about the concept of time.
I'm blank. There is blankness about it right now.
  

  
  
  
  
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum PsychologyChapter IV
  
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
EXERCISE #7
Differentiating the NON-VERBAL I AM from the NOT-I-I. Eyes closed (guided):
The NON-VERBAL I AM
                           1. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you in the room, not in the room, or neither?
                           2. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, what is a room?
                           3. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you here in a location, not in a location, or neither?
                           4. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, what is a location?
The NOT-I-I
                           5. Allow your awareness to move or fall "further and further" back into the BIG EMPTINESS. Now, from way back there allow the earth element, that is contained within your physical body to be sucked up back, way back, into the VOID and to dissolve. Next allow the element of fire, which is within your body, to be sucked up and back into the VOID and to dissolve there. Next, staying way back there, allow the water element of your body to be sucked up back into the VOID and to dissolve there. Finally, allow the air element to be sucked up back into the VOID. Allow the element of subtle ether, more subtle than air, to be sucked up and dissolved into the VOID. Way in the distance is also a state, the No-State-state of I AM with its concepts of energy, space, mass and time. Take the label off the concept of energy and notice that it immediately becomes VOID and goes back into WITNESSING the VOID. Take the la-
160 
________________
Chapter IV
bel off the concept of energy and just underneath it is NOTHING, just VOID. Take the label off the concept of space, and notice just underneath it is VOID. Take the label off the concept of mass, of solidness, just take the label off and just let it be VOID and be sucked up into the VOID because it is already VOID. Take your label off the concept of time and notice it is just VOID underneath it and so it becomes VOID. Take the label off the concept of distance and location and have it as just VOID. Finally, notice the No-State-State of I AM and have it, the I AM and the No-StateState, realize that what it has been seeing is itself. Take the label off and allow the No-State-State and the de-labeler to be VOID. In a moment, I will ask you to open your eyes and come back to the room.
EXERCISE #8
NOT-I-I Exercise: With a guide or by oneself.
Step 1:Notice what triggers your False Core. [In this Step we
use the trigger as a vehicle or starting point to trace back.]
Step 2: Trace it back and sit in your False Core just for a moment. Do not believe the False Core but notice it, experience it and observe it simultaneously. (Here we begin to go just a little "prior" to it recognizing it is not true nor is it me.)
Step 3:Notice what triggered the False Core and trace it back.
Go back and forth a few times. Observe this False Core which pulls your whole chain of associations. (Here we develop flexibility, the ability to BE and UNBE the False Core .)
Step 4:Now, notice the difference between you and it. (Here
"you" "get" it is not "you.")
Step 5:Next, go into ESSENCE prior to the False Core and
feel its essential qualities.
161
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Step 6:Notice the BIG EMPTINESS that this whole chain of
False Core and its associations are floating in.
Step 7:Notice the energy that your False Core has. (Here we
notice the BIG EMPTINESS--the NOT 14-I—that the False Core and its associations are floating in.]
Step 8: Take the label off the False Core and the entire chain while you notice the BIG EMPTINESS the chain is floating in.
Step 9:Have that as energy.
Step 10:Appreciate that the False Core is just a condensation of
the BIG EMPTINESS (or the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS condensing down).
Step 11:        See the energy now and the BIG EMPTINESS itself as
being made of the same substance.
Step 12:Notice what occurs.
Step 13:Keeping that level of awareness, split your awareness
so that part of your awareness is in the BIG EMPTINESS and another part can see whatever may or may not come up in the condensation of that EMPTINESS. In other words, should the EMPTINESS condense down and become a thought or feeling, simply notice what that is. Whenever you are ready, let your eyes open and have part of your awareness here in this room.
At some point, you will see that there is an end to the number of ideas you have about (fill in the blank). It is the idea about "me" or "you" or the concept of mine. The more concepts you look at and get processed and go beyond, the more the NOT-I-I of pure awareness gets stabilized in the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS moves to foreground, and the "you" you call yourself disappears.
Notice the cosmic super-imposition whereby the NOT-I becomes the "I" and the "I" becomes the NOT-I superimposed as the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS condenses. The mind is like a computer; at some point, ideas end (are downloaded). It is difficult to stabilize and get this NOT-I since all your attention is on the computer software and because the "I" can-
162
Chapter W
not stabilize because the "I" is not it. Beate Walter of the Institute for Applied Physiology in Freiburg Germany said it this way:
You are enquiring, noting what comes up on the computer screen, downloading it and then discarding the program. Notice what concepts come up on your computer screen and push the delete button.
Quantum Psychology urges you to recognize what you are resisting awareness of.
EXERCISE #8
Guided Exercise
                           1. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, are you a personality? Does your personality appear within you or neither?
                           2. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, what is a personality?
                           3. If you don't use your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, does this concept of personality have a form, is it formless, or neither?
                           4. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, define this thing called personality.
                           5. If you do not use your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions regarding this concept called personality, is it always there? Does it come and go or neither?
                           6. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, what is coming or going?
                           7. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, is there really a personality?
                           8. Are there thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions if you don't use your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions?
163
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum psychology
Notice the VOID behind your eyes. Notice the VOID or the no state behind your eyes. Notice the VOID behind your sense of smell. Notice the VOID behind your feeling states. Notice the VOID behind your desire to learn. Notice the VOID behind your sense of taste. Notice the VOID behind your hunger. Notice the VOID behind your tiredness. Notice the VOID behind your sexuality. Notice the VOID behind your desire to merge. Notice the VOID behind your sense of differences. Notice the VOID behind your awareness. Be the VOID behind the noticer. Be the pure awareness (the WITNESS). Now, "what is it that has a thousand eyes but cannot see, a thousand ears but cannot hear?" Allow yourself to go further and further back into the vastness. Go further back into the vastness of the VOID. Notice the answer to the Zen Koan. Notice "what it is that moves the arms, lifts the legs and hears." Experience that the VOID moves the arms and hears. Now, in a moment, I will ask you to open your eyes and come back to the room. Allow the experience of the VOID living through you rather than you living a personal life. Let the VOID live through you, hear through you, move through you. Whenever you are ready, you can let your eyes open.
EXERCISE #9
NOT-I-I Exercise to be Done with a Guide: Cultivating the Possibility of VOID
Step I:Experience your skin boundary as a wall.
Step II:Experience that there is nothing substantial inside of it.
Step III:Now, turn your attention to the EMPTINESS inside the
wall of your skin boundary. Go into the NOTHING inside your skin boundary.
Step IV:"See" the EMPTINESS that the floor is composed of.
In other words, it's like tearing off the covering or a layer and seeing behind and/or through people into the VOID. You could do that with the floor so you take the cover off of the floor and experience the VOID that is just underneath it.
________________
Chapter IV
  
        Step V:Now, do the same thing with the air. See through the air    
so that you can see through to the VOID which it is composed of. It is just there but you will have to see through your cover/concept layer and go beyond the concept called "air." You also have to let go or notice the concept called solidness.
        Step VI:Let go or notice the concept called "me." And get that
"me" and "I" are both interesting ideas.
Step VII: Notice the skin boundaries which are like a wall and see through the wall as also the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. Now, notice there is a sense of consciousness or awareness of just being. You can just be there which is an interesting idea. Awareness is an interesting idea, nothing more. And consciousness, too, is an interesting idea. Notice how sound comes into "your" VOID but the idea that the sound is separate from you is an interesting idea. The idea that you have to condense down or are condensed down or the idea that you are thinned out is an interesting idea but nothing more. Now, if you are just experiencing you are just here with nothing going on, that's an interesting idea.
        Step IX:Certainly I AM is an interesting idea.
So in a moment you can open your eyes and come back to the room. But when you do open your eyes, keep most of your awareness way back there, and when you open your eyes, see from back there in the VOID and then see through the people in the room, the alleged solidness, the alleged people in the room, see through and see the VOID through everything. So whenever you are ready, let your eyes open. And whenever you look at an object or a person, see the object and person as both the object and the VOID simultaneously. Notice what happens when you hold object and VOID simultaneously.
  
  
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
NOT-I-1 EXERCISE #10
On Religious Symbols
"Symbols are for the symbol-minded."
George Carlin
Find the space or VOID before the emergence of any religious symbols.
The purpose of this meditation is to process out negative and positive reactions you have to particular religious or spiritual symbols, such as crosses, Jewish stars, mandalas, idols, statues, crystals, etc. I am going to ask you to find a religious symbol inside yourself. It doesn't matter what it is. You'll be surprised how much attachment you have, how many good or bad feelings (energy) attached to it. Now, go back into the EMPTINESS from which the symbol arose, to the space prior to the symbol, and focus on that VOID.
Practice
Now, I'd like you to let an image come to you, of a spiritual or religious symbol. Notice what your positive or negative feelings are about it. Then find the VOID prior to the emergence of that symbol. Now, let another religious symbol come up into your awareness, notice the image, good or bad, and find the VOID from which that symbol came. Now, let another religious symbol come up into your awareness, notice the energy, and find the VOID from which that symbol came. Allow another spiritual symbol to come into your awareness, and again, locate the VOID that symbol came from. And finally, one more religious symbol, notice the energy attached to it, and find the VOID and stay in the space where all religious symbols come from; in fact, stay in the VOID where all symbols come from. Go deeply into that VOID. Go deeply into the VOID prior to the emergence of any or all symbols. Whenever you're ready, begin coming up and back, bringing your awareness back to the room, and allowing your eyes to open.
The "view" of the Witness is that there is only one substance or consciousness or VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CON-
166
________________
Chapter iv
SCIOUSNESS. To "get" this experientially the next few exercises are provided.
EXERCISE #I I
Experience Food as Consciousness
        Step 1:Recall a time you had a desire or a fantasy for food.
        Step 2:Notice where in your body you felt that desire or fan-
tasy.
        Step 3:Focus your attention on the energy or desire for food or
hunger as consciousness.
        Step 4:Notice that you are the observer-knower of that con-
sciousness.
        Step 5:Experience the observer-knower and the desire as the  
same consciousness.
        Step 6:Let your eyes open and experience objects in the room  
(i.e., tables, walls, chairs, etc.) as being made of that same consciousness as the observer-knower and the sensation of hunger for food.
EXERCISE #12
Experiencing Sexuality as Consciousness
        Step l :Recall a time you felt sexual.
        Step 2:Notice where in your body you feel the sexual energy.
        Step 3:Focus your attention on the sexuality itself as conscious-
ness.
        Step 4:Notice you are the observer-knower.
        Step 5:Experience the observer-knower and the sexual energy
as being made of the same consciousness.
Step 6:Let your eyes open and experience objects in the room
(i.e., tables, walls, chairs, etc.) as being made of the same consciousness as the observer-knower and the sexual feelings.
167
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
EXERCISE #13
Experiencing Jealousy as Consciousness
Step 1:Recall a time you felt jealous.
Step 2:Notice where in your body you feel the jealousy.
Step 3:Focus your attention on the jealousy as consciousness.
Step 4:Notice you are the observer-knower.
Step 5:Experience the observer-knower and the emotion as
being made of the same consciousness.
Step 6:Let your eyes open and experience objects in the room
(i.e., tables, walls, chairs, etc.) as being made of the same
consciousness as the observer-knower and the emotion.
EXERCISE #14
Experiencing Joy As Consciousness
Step 1:Recall a time you felt joy.
Step 2:Notice where in your body you feel the joy.
Step 3:Focus your attention on the joy itself as consciousness.
Step 4:Notice that you are the observer-knower.
Step 5:Experience the observer-knower and the emotion as
made of the same consciousness.
Step 6:Let your eyes open and experience objects in the room,
i.e., tables, walls, chairs, etc., as being made of the same
consciousness as the observer-knower and the emotion.
EXERCISE #I5
Anger as Consciousness
Step 1:Recall a time you felt angry.
Step 2:Notice where in your body you feel the anger.
Step 3:Focus your attention on the anger itself as conscious-
ness.
168
________________
Chapter IV
Step 4:Notice that you are the observer-knower.
Step 5:Experience the observer-knower and the emotion as
made of the same consciousness.
Step 6:Let your eyes open and experience objects in the room,
i.e. tables, walls, chairs, etc., as being made of the same
consciousness as the observer-knower and the emotion.
EXERCISE #I6
Sadness as Consciousness
Step l:Recall a time you felt sad.
Step 2:Notice where in your body you feel the sadness.
Step 3:Focus your attention on the sadness itself as made of
consciousness.
Step 4:Notice you are the observer-knower.
Step 5:Experience the observer-knower and the emotion as the
same consciousness.
Step 6:Let your eyes open and experience objects in the room,
i.e., tables, walls, chairs, etc., as being made of the same
consciousness as the observer-knower and the emotion.
CONCLUDING EXERCISES
"EMPTINESS is the absence of Independent Existence."
H. H. Dalai Lama
Notice that each chapter gets smaller and smaller because the concepts disappear so there is less and less to write about.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
To find out who you are, awareness itself must also dissolve. This puts "you" beyond the WHO AM I and awareness itself.
169
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
A teacher in India once said, "Just as a pole vaulter must let go of the pole to get to the other side, you must let go of religion to get to the other side." According to Quantum Psychology, "When awareness falls away as NOT-I, then the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS is revealed."
In short, the building of awareness implies that awareness sees things as being made of different substances. To go beyond, one must see them as the same. All psycho-spiritual systems believe in awareness. The concept of awareness too must be gone beyond.
Problems can only arise as long as there is an imagined "I" who experiences the problem. Once acknowledged, the problem and the experiencer of the problem disappear or are quantumfied.
Quantumfied: The process whereby the unity of the experiencER and the experience is recognized. "It"—the experiencER-experience then disappears in that EMPTINESS.
EXERCISE #17
________________
Chapter IV
dependent and inter-connected, nothing has a separate independent self nature. Once this is grasped, the problem or experience disappears or is quantumfied,
Step I: Step II:
Step III:
	Acknowledge the experiencer and the experienced problem as one.
Notice that they have neither a separate self-nature nor are they separate from everything else.
Allow them to disappear (be quantumfied).
	

CAUSE AND EFFECT
On the conventional level there is a path, there is causation. But because causation has no inherent existence—to perceive that causation has inherent existence is ignorance.
H. H. Dalai Lama
RAMANA MAHARISHI REVISITED  
Looking back at Ramana Maharishi's "Who Am I," we can begin to explore it at yet a deeper level.
Originally, Maharishi said, "Whenever a thought arises ask, 'Who am I?' or 'Who is this IT and the thought disappears."
THE NEXT STEP  
Step I:Notice an "I" thought.
Step II:Notice the knower or experiencer of the "I" thought.
Step III:Notice what occurs when "you say," "What knower is
knowing this?"
The knower (experiencer) and known (experience) disappear. Why? Because you go beyond the knower-known, experiencer-experience dyad, and there is NO-YOU and NO-I.
171  
  

  
"The NOT-I-I"
Contemplate:
                           1. That all information (knowledge) is without cause. (Singh)
                           2. The possibility that this information (knowledge) does not belong to me personally. (Singh)
I'm using the words "knowledge" and "information" interchangeably here so that either suggests anything you know about yourself or the world. This view is suggested because in the Siva Sutras it says, "Knowledge is bondage." Westerners misunderstand the word "knowledge." Actually what is meant is that information (beliefs, thoughts, etc.) you have about yourself is limiting when you define yourself by it. Nisargadatta Maharaj used to say, "Anything you know about yourself is separate from you and should be discarded as not you."
Practice:
Let your eyes close. As information about "yourself' comes into "your" awareness, contemplate that this information is without cause. Continue to contemplate that this information is without any cause. Next, contemplate that this information does not belong to you, or an "I". Whenever you're ready, bring your awareness back to the room, notice where you're sitting, and let your eyes open.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Cause and effect are actually not separate but are one unit; hence, they could be written Cause-effect.
________________
There are no causes or effects, rather the concept of a separate cause-effect causing a separate effect to arise and subside together along with the "I" or experiencer which experiences them (See Appendix—On Cause and Effect).
Stated another way, when "you experience" that the experiencER, the experience and the problem are one and the same and that everything is interconnected and made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE, everything disappears or becomes quantumfied.  
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Since there is no separate self and no separate object, all there is, is the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. By turning your attention around, the self disappears, is quantumfied. At that "moment" there is a blank on the screen.
EXERCISE #19
Turn your attention around and notice if there is a self which is experiencing anything
  
  
  
Turn your attention outward and notice an object. Look at an object from No-self and No-me as just pure Awareness.    


  
  
  
  
  
  
Notice a feeling.
Try to find the self that's feeling the feeling, and notice there is just feeling with no feeler.
Notice that there is no "you" feeling, that a feeler is contained within the feeling itself. Realize there is just feelings which do not belong to a "you" but just come into and out of the VOID.
________________
Notice an association.
Try to find the self that's having associations or memories, and notice the associationer is part of the association, no separate person having the associations or memories. Just memories or associations passing through the VOID.    
Notice hearing and the hearer.
Try to find the self that's hearing, and notice the hearer is contained within the hearing.
Notice there is no separate self hearing, that the hearER is contained within the hearing itself.
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
It soon becomes obvious that there is no separate self, that a feeling, thought, or association, etc., arises with the experiencER or knowER of it. THE CONCEPT OF A SELF IS CONTAINED IN THE THOUGHT ITSELF. At that moment the phenomenon disappears, and there is justness.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Once all conceptual ideas or beliefs about anything are removed, what is left is justness, the pure Awareness, the WIT NESS of the "NOT-I-1."
EXERCISE #26
Step I:
Step II: Step III:
	Look at an object. Pull your attention away from the object, past all concepts or knowledge of the object. Notice the VOID "behind you."
Notice that the perceiver is contained within the perception, and that there is no separate perceiver of the object, just perceiving.
	

                           1. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions associations or perceptions, is the personality appearing within you (as VOID) form, formless or neither.
                           2. Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, is there really a personality or just these thoughts, memory, emotions, sensations, associations and perceptions floating in and out of you (the VOID)?
The following ideas have been taught for centuries. Such statements as, "The answer is within," "It is inside of you, LOOK within." This "you" however, is not the "I" or the body, it is the VOID. "It is within you" (the VOID), "The kingdom of Heaven is within you"
176
Chapter IV  
(THE VOID), God dwells within you as you (the VOID) (see Chapter V, The Nameless Absolute).
This can best be appreciated by looking for the looker and realizing there is none there. In other words the looker or see-er and the seen are one. For years I looked at the corning and going of "my" mind looking for the answer. Even though my eyes were closed, I was looking forward or outside at the content of my consciousness (i.e., "I love myself," "I'm good," "I'm bad," etc.). Real looking or real going within is turning your attention around and noticing there is no you, that there is NOTHING there. This has been eluded to by Nisargadatta Maharaj when he would answer students by saying, "Find out who wants to know."
In Chapter XII of the Bhagavad Gita, it says, "To know the knower." To turn your attention around so that you realize the knower of the body and the mind are the same; and when the knower is actually looked for, the knower-known disappears and is discovered to be non-existent. This is what is meant by looking "within," looking for the "looker." This leads to Quantumfying (the disappearance of the appearance of (fill in the blank)).
I was once sitting with Nisargadatta Maharaj and having memories of what I thought were "past lives." He turned to me and said, "Describe your experience of birth and death." I said it was like a movie with different pictures passing by. "Who is the knower of the knowledge of your birth?" he asked me. I scratched my head. Hours later I said to him, "I AM. I AM the knower. The same I AM who was there at my birth will be there at my death." Later on this understanding deepened as "I" realized that the knower of my birth or knower of my death was contained within the concept of birth and death itself (the known). soon the knower-known disappeared. Once a man came to Maharaj and said, "I want to be happy." "That's nonsense," Maharaj replied, "Happiness is where the isn't."
EXERCISE #27
Exercise: When a thought arises, ask yourself, "Who told you that?" Then answer: The Mind" (i.e., condensed VOID).
177
  
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum Psychology    
The question is, "Who told you that?" The answer is, "The mind." Not MY mind but THE MIND. Everything you know comes out of the mind, because you wouldn't know if you were happy or sad, or felt good or bad, or liked someone or didn't—if there weren't something in your mind telling you so. When a thought conies through your awareness and tells you that you like someone or hate someone or that you feel good or bad, ask yourself, "Who told me that?" Then answer "The mind" (i.e., condensed VOID).
The purpose of this exercise is to become clear that it is the mind. The mind tells you that you feel good and you believe it, or you feel bad and you believe it. There is nothing personal about it. It is the mind (condensed VOID). It is the nature of the mind to always change its mind. It is your nature to be what you are and the mind's nature to be what it is. It is not personal because the "I" or knower of the mind is part of the mind itself. Once this is "gotten" the "I" or knower of the mind disappears and there is NOTHINGNESS. The difference between the mind and my mind is very subtle. If you were to say "my mind," the assumption is that you are solid, and it belongs to you. Rather, there is the mind and there are thoughts. In this way it becomes easier not to fuse with thoughts.
East Indian literature says that the key to freedom lies in renunciation. What do we mean by renunciation? Do you have to give up your desires or your feelings? No, but you have to give up your identification with the "I", "me" and "mine." This is true renunciation. In the same way, you have to give up identification with the mind (condensed VOID). The most important thing to understand is that the "I" will always run its tape. After I had lived in India for 5 years, people would leave and return but I'd still be there. After 6 years, someone came up to me and said, "You're going to be here forever" (as if l were someone special). "Actually, I'm leaving in June" I said. "Oh, that's just your ego," he said. "I used to have an ego called want to stay' I said, "Now, I have an ego called want to leave' ." In other words , they were both ego and it is all ego. "I love God" is ego, "I hate God" is ego, "I want to do service" is ego, "I hate doing service" is ego, it is all ego. It is important to remember that all your "I" thoughts are still "I" thoughts. Otherwise you get hooked into believing that "I feel great" or "I love life" is not
178
Chapter IV
ego whereas "I hate life" is. Anything after I AM (fill in the blankl, is ego and therefore it will change.
Practice:
Every time a thought comes into your awareness, no matter what it is, enquire "Who told me that?" answer, "It is the mind (condensed VOID)." See what happens. It's the mind, it's not you. Non-verbal thoughts or images, whatever you experience–it's the condensed VOID (mind).
Awareness arises and subsides and is condensed VOID. Awareness too comes and goes with each condensed "moment" of no-time now. It appears stable, it arises and subsides and is condensed VOID. Awareness is part of the mind (condensed VOID) and ultimately disappears in the VOID.
The NOT I-I-I
Notice the experience called "I AM." Turn your attention around and look for the experiencer who is having the experience of "I AM." The experiencer of I AM is in the experience of I AM. You are beyond that. EMPTINESS and the I AM are made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE. Notice how they immediately become one and disappear.
EXERCISE #28
179
  

Step I: Step II: Step Ill: Step IV:
	Notice an imagined cause. Notice its imagined effect. See this Cause-effect as one unit.
Merge all causes with their effects, or see cause and effect as a unity.
	Step I: Step
Step III:
Step IV:
	Notice the "I AM."
Turn your attention around and notice that there is no self which is having the experience of "I AM."
Notice that the no-self and the I AM are made of THAT ONE SUBSTANCE.
Maybe if you are "lucky" the "NOT-I-I" of pure awareness will disappear into the VOID,
	The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology    
NOT-I-1 EXERCISE #29
All experiencERS and experiences have different stages. By noticing the stage, the experiencer/experience quantumfies. The four stages: 1) Arising, 2) Maintaining, 3) Ending, and 4) Quantumfying.
Step I:Notice an experience.
Step II:Notice an experiencer.
Step III: Notice its stage.
Step IV: Experience the experiencer and the experience are the same.
Step V:Notice they both disappear into or are noth-
ing. 
________________
T
he "I", "me" and "mine" are the names the body-mind calls itself. It is not you.




180181
	  

	

Chapter IV            
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea
about "I".
Paula:There is "I" and "Not-l" .
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea
about the "I".
Paula:The "I" has to do with being important.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea
you have about "I".
Paula:This "I" thing takes up too much space.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea
about "I".
Paula:The "I" is very personal.
Wolinsky:Okay, personal. What does that mean?
Paula:Human being.
Wolinsky:So "I" is human being. That's an interesting idea.
Tell me another idea you have about "The I."
Paula:The "I" is about separateness.
Wolinsky:Okay. That's an interesting idea. Tell me another
idea you have about "I".
Paula:"I" is about existence.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea
about "I".
183
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology Paula:"r is a word.
g.
Wolinsky:Tell me another idea about "I''.
Paula:"I" is first person, singular.
Wolinsky:Tell me another idea you have about "I".
Paula:it there is an "I", there's a "you."
Wolinsky:Okay, tell me another idea you have about "I".
Paula:It means "I" am here.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Without using your
thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, what is here?
Paula:Silence. (No response)
Wolinsky:Tell me another idea you might have about "I".
Paula:"I" has feelings and thoughts and beliefs and as-
sociations and memories.
Wolinsky:Okay, are "you"?
Paula:Silence—no.
Wolinsky:Tell me another idea you have about "I".
Paula:"I" has dreams and fantasies and ideas about time.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me a difference
between you and "I".
Paula:I am before the "I".
184
Chapter IV  
Wolinsky:Tell me another idea that the "I" has about itself.
Paula:The idea that the " has about itself is that
exist.
Wolinsky:Okay. So what is going on?
Paula:There are no words.
Wolinsky:Okay, so notice that the "I" decided that the "I" is
me and that EMPTINESS was "NOT me." Are "you" still deciding that?
Paula:No, there is an "I" and a "Not I" out "here."
Wolinsky:Now, decide that the NOT-1 EMPTINESS IS ME
and that the "I" is not me.
Paula:It's rather interesting.
Wolinsky:How are you doing?
Paula:Good.
Wolinsky:Let's go onto
Therapeutic Note
Without using your thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, at some point there was an emergence—q-dentification that the EMPTINESS was not me and this "I" was me, i.e., the "I love myself, etc. All we are doing is pulling out the ideas and concepts that are being held around the "I", looking at it until it disappears There is a cosmic superimposition whereby you become "I" and VOID becomes "NOT I," so we are reversing the process.
185
Chapter IV                  
  
Wolinsky:Good. Just for fun, notice that there is no me, and
decide that the me is me and the EMPTINESS is NOT-ME.
Paula:Okay.
Wolinsky:Now, stop believing that and realize that that
EMPTINESS is me and the me is not me.
Paula:(no response)
Wolinsky:No words?  
Paula:I can say but it won't really say it.
Therapeutic Note
She let go of the concept of "me" by first differentiating and then switching the Not-"me"-"me". You have ideas about "me", "me" being your "me". So you are bringing into awareness and dismantling the ideas you have about "me" and what happens is this opens up the No-State-state of I AM and the NOT-I-I. What happened was that at "some point" EMPTINESS condensed down and created a concept of "me" and itself (VOID) as Not-"me." So all we are doing is reversing the process so you get that the EMPTINESS is "me" and this is not "me". At some point "you" decided that this EMPTINESS was not "me", and this thing called "me" was "me."
Wolinsky:Now, tell me an idea that the "I" has about the
idea about "mine."
Paula:There is a mine and a yours.
Wolinsky:That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea
that the "I" has about "mine."
Paula:I can possess things.
  

  
  
  
  
  
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea that the "I" has about the idea of mine.
The I believes it can own things.
That's an interesting idea too. Tell me another idea that the "I" has about the idea of mine.
The I thinks you can win things or loose things.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea that the "I" has about the idea of mine.
Ownership.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea the "I" has about the concept of mine.
Permanence, grasping.
Tell me another idea that the concept of "I" has about the concept of mine.
"I" has a concept called my body.
Okay, like it's mine. That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea that the concept of "I" has about the concept of mine.
Jealously, envy.
That's an interesting idea. Tell me another idea that the concept of "I" has about the concept of mine.
The I has this concept that one can conquer (cre-
ate), one can dictate outside, inside, boundaries
Chapter IV  
that one can dominate, one can exploit, one can destroy.
Those are interesting ideas. So, now again, notice this, well, you probably can't not notice this.
There is no noticing.
Okay, well, let's just chill out here then. You know
that that mine thing is just attached to "I", which
is nothing anyway. Is that an assumption of mine?
Uhm. That's simply a condensation. So be THAT.
I can't not be THAT.
So don't not be THAT.
That's not possible. (Long silence)
Notice the VOID behind your eyes. Notice the VOID behind your sense of smell.
Notice the VOID behind your feeling. Notice the VOID behind your learning. Notice the VOID behind your taste. Notice the VOID behind your awareness. Notice the VOID behind your sense of differences.
The Way of the Human ■ Beyond Quantum Psychology
Step VIII "See" experience all of the dimensions of manifestations as VOID. Experience the VOID through the dimensions.
EXERCISE #31
With a Guide
Let your eyes close. Without using thoughts, memory, emotions, associations or perceptions, expand awareness and go further and further back into that vastness of that big EMPTINESS. Now, from that vastness, allow the EMPTINESS to condense down, forming a representation of perfection. It might be just an energy ball. It might be an actual image. I have no idea. Notice the size and shape of this condensation called the concept of perfection. Take the label off and allow the experience of perfection with no object to dissolve into the EMPTINESS. Take a moment and just absorb that. Go into the EMPTINESS again. Allow the EMPTINESS to condense down and form some configuration of the essential quality of love. It might be an energy ball. It might just be an actual image. Taking the label off, ask/allow the configuration to be reabsorbed within you as the EMPTINESS. Allow awareness to go further into the VOID, allow the EMPTINESS to condense down and have the configuration for power with no object. Now, take the label off. Allow that power with no object to be reabsorbed into the EMPTINESS. Go further into the VOID and allow the EMPTINESS to condense down into a representation of truth and wisdom with no subject/object. Take the label off and reasborb that into the EMPTINESS. Allow the EMPTINESS to condense down and form a configuration, condensation representing connection or connectedness with no subject/object. Take the label off and allow that connection with no subject/object to be reabsorbed into the EMPTINESS.
Allow awareness to expand further and further into the VOID and allow the VOID to condense down and form the EMPTINESS of observation with no object. Once again, take the label off, allow that observation with no object to be reabsorbed into the EMPTINESS. Go further into the VOID. Allow the VOID to condense down
190
Chapter IV  
and create the configuration of thinking with no subject/object or thought with no subject/object. Take the label off and allow that to be the EMPTINESS. Go further into the VOID. Allow the EMPTI. NESS to condense down and form a configuration of balance with no subject/object, everything in balance. Take the label off allow that to be absorbed back into the EMPTINESS. Allow the EMPTINESS to condense down and to form the configuration, as it condenses down, of will and strength, strength with no subject/object, will with no subject/object. Allow awareness to go further and further back into the EMPTINESS and allow the EMPTINESS to condense down and create the configuration of value in that we all belong to THAT ONE SUBSTANCE. Value with no subject/object. Because everything is equally valued, hence, no significance.
Finally, allow THE EMPTINESS to condense down and form the configuration that we all have the same roots,. That everything is rooted in THAT ONE SUBSTANCE. Take the label off, allowing this to be reabsorbed into the EMPTINESS. Going further into the VOID, allow the EMPTINESS to condense down and form the configuration of things being complete, whole, with no subject/object, just complete in and of themselves, complete just as they are. Take the label off, allowing that being complete in and off itself to go back into the EMPTINESS. Now allow the delabeler to be made of THAT EMPTINESS.
NOT- -I
EXERCISE #31
Experience:
I. Experience your physical body as emptiness.
2. Contemplate the non-essentiality of the universe. (Vijnana Bhairava, Jaideva Singh)
Practice:
Focus your attention on your physical body and meditate on it as
EMPTINESS. Experience your physical body as EMPTINESS.
191
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
Continue to experience your skin, your flesh, and your body and bones as EMPTINESS. Keeping your eyes closed, contemplate the non-essentiality of the universe. Now "experience" the contemplation as made of THAT EMPTINESS.
Gently feel your body, where it is, noticing your breathing, and very gently bring your awareness back to the room. Whenever you are ready, let your eyes open.
NOT-I-I
EXERCISE #32
Meditate on the VOID:
Just beyond the Dimensions
On the space at the end of a sound. (Vijnana Bhairava, Singh)
This meditation takes you just "beyond" or "before" the dimensions. We are working with being able to utilize sounds to find the NOTHING before sound in the Physical Dimension. In this, whether you hear a voice, a bird, traffic sounds, find the space at the end of the sound. If you're listening to a sentence in your mind or to an idea, find the VOID at the end of the sound. You're going to drop into that space, that silence, that VOID.
Practice:
Begin by experiencing the space or the VOID after the occurrence of a sound, of a word, or an idea, or any sound. Use any sound, either "inside" or "outside" "yourself," and find the space at the end of it. Sink deeply into that space. Whenever you're ready, bring your awareness back to the room; notice your breathing and let your eyes open.
Contemplate:
That the senses move not by my will or your will, but by the will of the VOID or EMPTINESS.
________________
Chapter IV
  
"I'd" like you to contemplate the five senses. Senses are moved not by your own personal will but by the the VOID or EMPTINESS. For example, if your eyes move a certain way, it's the VOID. I want you to contemplate that the senses move not by your will, but it is the VOID. Everything appears to move by the VOID. Contemplate that for a moment. Nisargadatta Maharaj used to say, "Allow the VOID to live through you."      
Contemplate:
That you are not living a life, but that you are being lived. The VOID lives through you.
A student commented about this meditation: "What it did more than anything was make me realize that the that thinks it's doing all of this is my own creation, it's an illusion. It's always the divine or VOID that's moving everything, and to superimpose on that the belief that 'I'm doing it' is ego and illusion." I told him that one of the first principles of Yoga is, "I am not the doer." I added that, "The VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS (also called the SELF in India) does everything." He replied, "It makes the 'I' a real illusion." Not doing anything, that's a real letting go because the "I" wants to control. It's the old saying: "there but for the grace of God (the VOID) go I." The VOID creates the mind by appearing to become solid, by condensing down, and ultimately, to see the mind and everything else as made of and by the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS (SELF) and as THAT ONE SUBSTANCE.
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
See each dimension as VOID
The Way of the Human • Beyond Quantum Psychology
CONCLUSION
The NOT-I-I is "where" Quantum Psychology "ends." The NOT-I-I is "where" pure awareness resides, beyond this is the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, also called the SELF, THAT, etc. It is "there" "where" Quantum Psychology, awareness itself, and the "you" "you" call "you" disappear. And YOU ARE THAT.
Good-bye
with love,
your x-brother
Stephen
________________
CHAPTER V
  
THE VOID OF
UNDIFFERENTIATED
CONSCIOUSNESS  
"There is no there there, there is no here here."
Gertrude Stein
"That there is no location is the cornerstone of quantum physics."
Neils Bohr
QUANTUM PSYCHOLOGY PRINCIPLE:
Awareness is a condensation of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS. It is the condensed VOID being aware of itself. When awareness thins-out and disappears into the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS, all ideas or experiences and experiencers of the VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CONSCIOUSNESS disappear, including awareness itself.
THE VOID
T
he EMPTINESS of the VOID is a hallmark of most forms of Buddhism. The VOID OF UNDIFFERENTIATED CON SCIOUSNESS can be seen as THAT EMPTINESS that ev-