Stephen Wu!frisky, Ph.D., began his clinical practice in Los Ary hi
California in 1974. A Gestalt arid Reichian therapist and trainer h;el-s'
works hopi in Southern California. lie was also trained in Classical 1 lypnosisd
Psychosynthests. Psyc tux/mina/Psychomotor, and Transactional Analysis,'
In 1977 he journeyed to India, where he lived for almost six years studying
meditation. lie moved to New Mexico in 1982 to resume a clinical practice,
Them lie began to train therapists in Ericksonian Flypnosis, N. L. P. and family
,
,• pv, Dr, Wolinsky also conducted year-long trainings entitled: Integral_
Hypnosis with Psychotherapy, and Integrating Hypnosis with Fan*
. y. Dr. Wolinsky is currently working on a second book, Q10171104
•        r, •
iousoess The Drko►fery and Birth of Quantum•
P.sychology. The
sof Consriousnesis lie is the co-developer of Quantum Seminarsmi
and the founder of Quitniuni Psychologylm. Along with Kristi L. Kenner).
- '•iii, he founded the first Quantum Psychology lnstituter"f. For more
ion write or call: Quantum Psychology Institute, do Dr. Ste n
phe
ilitaky, Star Rowe Box 277, Placitas, New Mexico 87043, (505) 867-
Fore;vord xi
Prologue 
Chapter I
/1 Day in the Life of a Trance  5
Chapter 2
Home is Where the Trance is I 9
Chapter 3
"You Are the Tenth One":
Working with the Self Behind the Trance         29
  

•
	  

	yen is a writer and editor in Los Angeles, California. She is
Ernest L. Rossi) of the Ibur- volume series, The Workshops,
`,0of/Wilton Erickson. She is also the collaborating
Mae Metaphors for Children and the Child Within (Joyce
4 ODWICA andeth tOr oltal Whitaker's Afichn:ghtithaings


Chapter 6
Crewing Context: You Are Not Your Problem
	        57
	Chapter 7
ge Regression
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

Chapter 8
Age Progression: Pseudo-Orientation in Time
	        95
	

  
The AuthorsContents
clephen trofinsiy, Ph.V., began his,        practice in Los Ak  
nge
elliforolo tki 1074. A Gestalt and Relailan therapist and trainer, hu led
o trained in Classical Hypn • •
* olkshop: Stluthem Cal i forn in. lk was a.s%ists
;%\14 chttyn the si psychodcumiNsyc hotnotor, and Transactional Analy%is.
In 107 hc oneved to        where •he lived for alisit:oz!ticxiyileliacr; spirt:ideNtsiict?
meditation. I k moved to New Mexico in 1982 to Ili
HsN.L.
ar1,1cl:ow/rain ti‘erapists in Erip and family
 Therapy. ix wolinsky :tlso conducted year-long trainings emitled: Integrate
inc Hypnosis with Psychotherapy. and Integrating I Iypnosis with Family
Therapy. Dr. wohnsky is currently working on a second hook, Quantum
Consciousness: The Discovery and Birth of Quantum Psychology. The
Physics rjf Consciousness. lie is the co-developer of Quantum Seminars'`'
and the founder of Quantum Psychology"' . Along with Kristi L. Kennett.
he founded the first Quantum Psychology Instituter ' . for mom
information write or call: Quantum Psychology Institute, do Dr. Stephen
Wolinsky. Star Route Box 277, Placitas, New Mexico 87043, (505) 867-
939>  
Margaret 0. Rym is a writer and editor in Los Angeles, California. She is
co-editor (with Ernest 1. Rossi) of the four-volume series, The Workshops.
Semilkirs.ami Lectures of Milton I I Erickson. She is also the collaborating
author of Therapeutic Metaphors for Children and the Child tVithin (Joyce
MilLs and RuchardCrowley),andeditorof Car1Whitaker's Midnight Musings
a Family Therapist.
Foreword . xi
Vrologue 
Chapter 1
A Day in the Life of a Trance 
Chapter 2
Home is Where the Trance Is • *• * ...•..••...• 19
Chapter 3
-You Are the Tenth One"
Working with the Self Behind the Trance   29
Chapter 4
Trance Or No Trance ? Marrying East and West
Chapter 5
It' s All in the Playing: A Context of Approaches    51
Chapter 6
Creating Context: You Are Not Your Problem      


Chapter 7  
Age Regression
Chapter 8      
Age Progression: Pseudo-Orientation in Time






	  

Chapter 4
Trance Or No Trance? Marrying East and West
	        39
	Chapter 5
It's All in the Playing.. A Context of Approaches
	        51
	

	A
	

  
Chigger 9......... 105
Dissociation ......... ...,.........., .... Appendix I
Stripping Gears: Deconstructing Phobic Respormes
°lver 10 235
Posrkpnotre Suggestion .................   115Appendix 11
Utilizing Archetypes   239
  
  
  
  
  
"Zigzagging" : Integrating Traumatic Experience 
chapter. 243
12 
Chapter 13    
Positive Hallucination ............  
Chapter 14  
Confusion ............................    
Chapter 15
  
Time Distortion  
Chapter 16
Hypnotic Dreaming ....   185
Chapter 17
  
Sensory Distortion       
Chapter IR
Differentiating and Reassociating the Trigger 209
Chapter 19
Thy Fin-motion of Hypnotic Identities 217
131Appendix HI
Chapter 20
        The Organizing Principle     227
Epilogue
  
oundations cif Quantum Psychology231
  
  
Foreword    
0 0 INCLUDE enough humor to make the reading enjoyable,
to be autobiographical in a way that lends intensity and legitimacy,
and finally, to present both the studious quality and the thinker  
quality is a massive bit of coordinated fullness.
In Trances People Live Dr. Wolinsky has made a unique project
of combining his six years in the Far East studying their world with
his 20 years as a therapy student studying our world. This unique
integration makes his background for writing about firicksonian
psychotherapy, historic psychotherapy. Add to this some Eastern
philosophy as well as Western religion and physics, and you've got,
a fascinating piece of literary choreography.
In Trances People Live the author presents a new conceptual
framework for trance which translates into a comprehensible,
psychotherapeutic, organized way of looking at daily life as a
process of trance. Very exciting. H is concept ofeveryday psychology
as a process of self-induced trance is a wonderful way to begin. Ile
is almost saying that trance is a new word for feelings. it is also a new
word for the residuals of our life history.
As he moves from this point to a larger understanding and
explanation of experiencing oneself as the context for one's feel-
ings, he finds an intriguing way of teaching others how to experience
the transformational insight that "I am not my problem." His
understanding of the move from intrapersonal trance to interpersonal
trance is a delightful extrapolation from the beginning premise that
  
  
"..11•11111111110
tiiby myself." He not only makes it clear that
an extrapolation within the context of self-hood, 
..I arentranced
-ymptonis areOt
sl-hood, or person-hood, but goes from there to a perspective of th
isychotherapyperson_
experience that includes the therapist's
hood. Dr. Wolinsky's concept of the integrity of the therapist and
his belief that the therapist-patient identity is a unity, and that lat th
therapist's interpersonal honesty and freedom to express himself is
cenual to his own beingness, makes the quality of this book la
  
u-anscendent experience.
I loved reading Trances People Live, I highly recommend it
and please don't be confused by the word hypnosis. Dr. wor -.I
insky
is talking about life.
Carl Whitaker, M, b.
  
  
  
  
  
March, 1991
  

  
7 • TranCeS          
l'',1Nick Herbert, noted physi.
HeisenuctbPrinciple."
Quantum Reality: Beyond the New Physics, ha
.„uncertainty
est and author of*gibe Christopher Columbus of Quantun;
calked \Verner        of the new, unchartered world of quan."..
physics",.4he discoverer
pathways of the old world of
-w°rilforever changed the world of
cum physics amidst the well
Newtonian physics_ Heisenberg.
h which showed that the instrument of
Pmeasurement as well as the observer of the experiment influence the
(1985). Heisenberg's single finding
hysics through his tvsearc
outcome. According to Herbert
has given rise to an array of philosophical interpretations within the
scientific community, which he identifies as eight different schools
of thoufht. One of these, the "Copenhagen interpretation," is the
Quantum Psychology. Herbert (1985) explains that:
centerpoint of
The Copenhagen interpretation properly consists of two
distinct parts: (1)Thert is no reality in absence of observa-
tion; (2) observation creates reality. You create your o
reality is the theme of Fred Wolf's Taking the Quantum
Leap. (p. 17)
In amplifying the Copenhagen interpretation of Heisenberg's Uncer-
tainty Principle, Fred Wolf (1981) cites another physicist's view:
Eugene Wigler, Nobel prize-winner in physics, believes
that our consciousness alters the %%forld itself, because it
alters how we appraise the future. That is, we experience
the world the way we do because we choose to experience
it that way. (p. 211)
Wolf speculates: "How could there be a mechanical universe out
there if the universe changed every time we altered how we observe
Because of the active influence exerted by the observer in this
Quantum universe, quantum theorist John Wheeler has added a
significant refinement by changing the word observer toparttopa-
or, stating that "no elementary phenomenon is a real phenomena
until it is observed" (I lerbert, 1985, p. 18).
Translated into Quantum Psychological terminology, this means
that how we subjectively experience events, interactions, and our
  
own inner self is observer-created—created by us. This realitY
suggests a further one: that we as the knowers of our experience.
  
  

  
  
  
  
A Day In The Life
OfA Trance
IX YEARS AGO I had a breakthrough moment that changed
the way I did therapy and brought together 15 years of study in
Eastern and Western traditions. While working with a woman
whose presenting problem was alcoholism, I suddenly realized that
she was spontaneously creating her own trance phenomena, and
that it was those very trance phenomena that made her symptom of
excessive drinking possible. I then began to notice that all the
symptoms my clients presented had at least one Deep Trance
Phenomenon associated with them. I was particularly surprised to
note that in order for a symptom to remain a symptom, there had to
be at least one Deep Trance Phenomenon that the person created to
hold the symptomatology together "like glue." Without the associ-
ated Deep Trance Phenomenon, the symptom could not repeat itself.
In some cases, the Deep Trance Phenomenon was the symptom itself.
I had been trained to use trance work in the Ericksonian
framework in which trance is seen as a special but natural state of
consciousness that is optimally suited for mediating therapeutic
  
6 . Trances People Live
work. Hypnosis is used as a means of bypassing the conscious
tion
trance so that problem resolu 11)(1
and inducing (or "facilitating")
can take place on an uncoainsccoihous level.
olic client, I experienced a startlin2
As I worked with my .
* now I saw trance phenomena as
reversal of that understanding
which symptoms are created and tnaintained
being the means byrnptom structure and thus at the Core
Trance was at the core of the sy
of symptom relief. In the next few days another reversal took place
in my understanding: what was currently being called "therapeutic
trance" in the hYPflotherapy community was really similar to the no-
rance state in which a person's perceptions and observations flow
tunobstructed in the Eastern practice of meditatlon.
It was not necessary to induce or facilitate trance work in the
therapeutic session, since the person arrived with her symptom ---
which meant that she arrived witiz the Deep Trance Phenomenon
Wit was being used to hold the symptom together. By working with ir
the symptomatic trance the person had already created, she would
"pop into" a no-trance state (currently called "therapeutic trance")
in which the symptom could be rapidly relieved. Furthermore, the
job of the hypnotherapist was no longer to induce a trance but rather
to de-hypnotize the individual out of the trance she was already
experiencing. In short, there was no reason to create another trance
to counter the symptom; rather, it was simpler and easier to utilize
the trance (symptom) the client brought to the session.
In the remainder of this chapter we will explore a new, more
comprehensive view of the experience of trance that goes beyond
Erickson's concept of the "common everyday trance." We will see
how Deep Trance Phenomena are at the core of a wide spectrum of
experience that spans the symptoms, identities, roles, and reactions
we create as adults. In Chapter 2 we will look at the etiology of
trance as symptom as it is created and maintained in the early fans ily
environment.
Trance asSymptom      
Let's explore a few everyday examples of trance states that
underlie COMMOT1 problems•to clarify this paradigm shift.
Anxiety is a fear of the future.A client whose presenting
________________
A Day In The Life Of A Trance • 7
problem is anxiety might be using a cluster of Deep •Trance
Phenomena to synthesize the sensation of anxiety. First Mlles
pseudo-orientation in time as she imagines a catastrophic outcome
occurring in the future and therefore experiences fear_ Next she uses
posthypnotic suggestions ("it will never work out," "I can't cope
with life," "Nothing will help") to articulate and differentiate the
particulars of the negative outcome she is imagining. These are
reinforced by negative hallucinations, which block her ability to see
or acknowledge other resources, and perhaps vivified by positive
hallucinations as she visualizes herself encountering an anxiety-
provoking stimulus (such as a bill collector) that is not present in
present time. All of this turmoil is likely to be further exacerbated
by an experience of time distortion in which she has a breathless
feeling that there is not enough time to find any kind of solution.
Erickson (Erickson, Rossi, & Rossi, 1976; Erickson & Rossi,
1979) wrote about the "common everyday trance" that naturally
occurs throughout the day. This is the type of light trance state that
we all experience periodically. It is not particularly problematic
and, indeed, it can even be refreshing. Driving along in the car, I hear
a tune from 20 years ago and spontaneously age regress to a
particular experience that is linked in my memory with that tune. Or,
I am sitting in my favorite chair absorbed in a basketball game on
TV and somehow manage not to hear a word that is said to me by
my wife. Or, I look up from my desk where I have been hard at work
for the past hour and glance outside, staring into the sky and the trees
in a daydreamy, absorbing moment.
These examples of Erickson's common everyday trance invol ye
a non-symptomatic and transitory use of Deep Trance Phenomena.
In addition to these kinds of light trance states that Erickson
described and utilized in his work are trance states that function at
the core of the symptom structure. As we will see in Chapter 2, these
kinds of trances are created by the child in response to threat and
become sources of pathology as they are integrated into the child's
habitual mode of response. By the time we reach adulthood, we
have intricate patterns of defense woven out of clusters of Deep
Trance Phenomena that appear to function autonomously within us.
Choice becomes the key factor in ascertaining whether the trance
we are in is part of the problem, part of the solution, or just a
  

  

, ,,,,fftshine exnAr.,rience. Am I locked into (identified w
8 • Trances PeoPle Litt
Ptilleasis naillolm' .-ent :If di;sociation? Or .can I easily return my focu
attention? AmIchoosing to expenence pseudo-orientation in ti
or did it seem to happen to me?
For example, as I am sitting in a restaurant listening to a friend
talk, I find that something he has said about a recent movie teas
triggered associations in me: various pictures "pop up" auton
iati.
cally in my mind's eye, as I slip into recalling. similar movie I saw
with an old girlfriend. I can let my mind continue to wander (that's
one kind of trance state), or I can consciously choose to focus m
..ore
intently on my friend (that may be another kind of trance state)
but either way, I am not in the grip of a problem  is trance state n
,,ver
whichl have no apparent control. A problematic trance would occur
 it' I found myself slipping into a rapid depression as my wandering
associations popped up painful memories from the past relationship
(age regression), and I virtually stopped hearing or seeing my fr;
and the environment in present time (negative auditory or v send
hailucinations) as I became "lost" in my ruminations. In both cases
I am
* a trance, but in the former I can choose to move out of
with it and
alter it easily, while in the latter I become identified ' h ' of -. or
contents.ld its
	

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Trance as a Continuum
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
In the Eastern tradition we are seen as being trapped in "maya,"
the transient world of the mind. We identify with (and thus become)
this transient inner world of thoughts, feelings, emotions. The
entrapment comes not from the external sensate world per se, but
from our identification with it and attachment to it. We identify with
this feeling and that thought, we think we are no more than the
bundle of sensations currently capturing our field of attention.
These identifications and attachments create limitations which
cause us much "suffering."
In a sense, trance states are transient and hence states of maya.
These are states during which we narrow and constrict our attention
(and our sense of selfhood) by identifying with our thoughtS,
feelings, and emotions in a manner which seems to be autonomous
— rather than recognizing that we are the knower of these trance-
  

  
10 • TrPeoPle Live    
experience.. . .Anything that
panents0Val body ant int e fascinates and holds or absorbs a person's attention could We have .thdes incoenvccerpytdoa; he described as hypnotic.
common everyday trance for those perio
when WC are so absorbed or preoccupied with one matter or
another that we momentarily lose track of our outer envi.
ronment. (p. 4)
Another core characteristic of trance is the experience of it as
happening to the person. In their five-stage paradigm of the dynamics
of trance induction, Erickson and Rossi (1979) note that stage five
that of the "hypnotic response," is "an expression of behavioral'
4). And, in a table entitled, Some Common Indicators of Tranee
potentials that att experienced as taking place autonomopuesrileyillic(:.
Experience," they list "autonomous ideation and inner ex
  
elaborates
at the top of the list (p. 11).(1987):
Experience in trance "just happens," without the regulation,
control, or other active participation by self-conscious
processes. ...this characteristic of effortlessness is described
by the principle of ideodynamicism, which states that ideas
can be expressed in dynamics (sensations, images, cogni-
tions, motor acts, perceptions, emotions) without any
conscious mediation. (p. 40)
Finally, trance is characterized by the spontaneous emergence
of various hypnotic phenomena (Erickson & Rossi, 1976/1980): 14
Depotentiating a patient's usual everyday conscious sets
[via trance) is thus a way of depotentiating facets of his
personal limitations; it is a way of deautomatizing an
individual's habitual modes of functioning so that disso-
ciation and many of its attendant classical hypnotic
phenomena (e. g., age regression, amnesia, sensory-per-
ceptualdistortions,catalepsies,etc.)arefrequently manifest
in an entirely spontaneous manner ."[Italics added] (p. 448)
We have now accumulated three core characteristics  of trance:
I) trance is characterized by a narrowing, shrinking, or
fixating of attention; 
________________
2. trance is most often experienced as happening to the
  
person; and
3. trance is characterized by the spontaneous emergence
of various hypnotic phenomena.
Keeping in mind these three core characteristics, let's explore the
vast arena of trance states we experience that are not commonly
identified as such.
In the course of any one particular day, you might experience
what 1 would call a "beach•trance," a "phobia trance," a "cute-kitty
trance," and a "light trance," to single out but a few.
Say you go to the beach on a Saturday, having completed a
rough week of high-pressured work. You lay down, you "space
out," you stare at the water, you feel the hypnotic warmth of the sun
on your body, and you are generally having a wonderful time
relaxing in the sand and sun (beach trance). Then some friends show
up and you all go fora walk along the water's edge. Everyone begins
roughhousing and you get pushed into the water. Unbeknownst to
your friends, you are phobic about actually being in the water, and
you begin to panic and feel like you are drowning (phobia trance).
You survive this ordeal, pack up and begin to walk home,
whereupon you come across a teenager trying to give away several
kittens. You stop dead in your tracks, pick up one of the kittens and
begin talking like a five-year-old. You are so enchanted by the kitten
that you spend 30 minutes there, talking "kitty-talk" and being
completely oblivious to the time (kitty trance). You get home and
promptly get into a fight with your partner in which you both scream
and yell for 30 minutes because you were late (fight trance). Then
you make up and cuddle, kiss, and tell each other how much you
love one another for an hour (love trance).
There are two common factors in all of these trance experiences.
The first is that each one had a beginning point, a middle, and an
endpoint — which means that you are the one common factor in the
comings and goings of these particular trances.
The second is that each trance state (be it a "pleasant" one such
asgoing to the beach, or an "unpleasant" one such as getting into a
fight) was comprised ofa cluster oPeepTrance Phenomena . If you
were to videotape your experience at the beach, you would probably
  
  
  
12 • Trances pop' Litt'  
yin.0-011113tion that Caine over you. when
he unit itoarripinviled°itilytotuher 11)10dy was tense and your movements were
very focused: even your facia,' expression was still furrowed from
you begin to "inch " into a
you
inbleel'ivoewe,ku.i,t;soctitlIesetxdslitCalticilLIPPlyt.i114t:i.11.111)11e1Isand. baking in the warmth
lie s lash of the waves. Without
to the ritythnP
iving it a singk conscious thought, the beach experience appears
of the sun, listening
gto have created in you a hypnotic state of relaxation filled with Dec
Trance Phenomena such as time distortion, dissociation, anesthe"
sia, sensory distortion, and so forth.
perhaps you have a more active beach experience of running iaah_
along the water, playing ball with a nearby child, laughing and "Tr
When asked, "Flow was your day?"
splashing "like a kid again."
you might well answer, "Great! I felt like a kid again!" Basically,
the beach environment has triggered an age-regressed state that
appears to happen to you. After all, you didn't go to the beach with
the conscious intention of creating an experience of playing like a
kid again. Yet you did create that experience.
The phobia trance is comprised of an onslaught dose of age
regression wherein you are thrown back in time to when, as a very
young child, you got knocked down by waves and felt like you were
drowning. Hand-in-hand with this time traveling is an experience of
pseudo-orientation in rime wherein you move forward in time to the
imagined moment of catastrophe; and you experience an agonizing
sense of time distortion: suddenly, time feels as if it is standing still
andyou are frozen in the grip of your panic. Next, "waves" of
posthypnotic suggestions ("I might die!... Get me out of here.. .1'm
a bad boy for being here. . .1'm going to die!") wash over your
 thoughts to complete your single-pointed experience of fear.
The kitty trance helps restore you to a more comfortable state.
This time, your experience of age regression is a totally pleasant
one as you slip back to those magical moments you had getting your
first kitty. The narrowing of your focus of attention to the kittens is
a pleasure to feel and contrasts sharply with the narrowing of your
focus of attention to the state of panic you experienced (created)
earlier. Similarly, your altered experience of time in the kitten
trance (time distortion in which time is experienced as passing
quickly) contrasts with the sense of timepassing
in the panic trance.inexorably slowly 
________________
A Day in The Life A Trance • I I
The fight trance whips into motion through a swift kick of age
regression to the tantrum age. You both yell and scream; one of you
slams a book down for emphasis; the other turns his/her hack and
pouts. The tantrum then gets articulated and elaborated through a
barrage of posthypnotic suggestions fired back and forth. Your
partner shouts: "You're always late. . .you're never considerate of
Inc. you only think of yourself.. .being late means►you don 't really
love You retaliate: taliate: "You're always rigid.. .you're never spontane-
ous. ..you only think of your schedule . if you loved me, you'd give
me mPsoereudspoflocte.iertvitation in time then takes yourpartner through the
day in lightning speed and brings him/her to the unhappy conclu-
sion that "the rest of the day is ruined!" Your conclusion is similar.
You both march off to separate rooms, stewing in a trance that
indeed creates the rest of the day (pseudo-orientation in time to the
future) as being ruined in present time.
At last you both get bored by the stalemate and begin to talk
things through. As the anger dissipates and sweet feelings arise, the
love trance glides into motion. Your mutual age regressions of the
tantrum phase now transform into the age regression of the pow-
erless, dependent, grateful child phase. You both slip into baby-talk
as you apologize, telling each other, "I love you," and proclaiming
that, "You're the only person in the world for me," or, "I would be
devastated without you," or "I'm more myself with you than with
anyone else in the world" (posthypnotic suggestions). You both
reassert your couplehood (identity trance — more on that later) and
take comfort in your internal pictures of walking down the street
together hand-in-hand , being responded to as a couple in restaurants,
sharing one cred it card and buy ing househo Id items together (pseudo-
orientation in time).
You may also experience some degree of time distortion in your
love trance as time seems to stand still or disappear entirely.
This is not to say that all our moments of love are encumbered
by trance states that take the experience out of present time and
burden it with "unfinished business." However, such "pure" ex-
periences of love (in I lindu literature it is called prem; in Western
culture it is currently referred to as "unconditional love") are fairly
  
  
  
A Day In The Life Of A Trtnice • 15                                      
Reactions as Trance States
Reactions are trance states when they happen to us — which is
more Often than not. We blow up, raise our voices, slam our fists
down on table tops, get red-faced, get passionate. We don't usually
experience ourselves as consciously, intentionally creating our
reactions, especially when any degree of emotional valence is
involved. We react back and forth in response to one an ter, which
means, in essence, that we are creat 44,1, trances that bounce back and
Our own responses are valuable tools. As soon as we Nun out
the reaction, we can see it clearly and become less identified with
it. An example of reaction as trance can be seen in the familiar
experience I call the "I Love You 'France." You are beginning a
relationship, and it is going well. There is•a lot of compatibility, the
right amount of passion, and so forth. One evening, under the glow
of a romantic moon, your partner says, "I love you•"
We have all had various encounters with this declaration.
Sometimes we are thrilled and begin to spin fantasies of an ecstatic
life (pseudo-orientation in tines and positive hallucination); some-
times we arc anand begin to dread the inevitable breakup
(pseudo•orientation in time and positive hallucination); or we may
just feel a sense of pressure and contraction as we begin to obsess
over, "What does this mean? Should we live together? Flow much
time should we spend together? Are we a couple now'? Should 1 tell
her/him my daily schedule??'?" (pseudo-orientation in time, post-
hypnotic suggestion, age regression).
From an enjoyable, in-the-moment experience, we suddenly
move into one which creaks and struggles beneath structures of
reactions. In essence, we are recreating the past in present time via
various Deep Trance Phenomena. As we saw in a previous section,
these trance phenomena "shrink-wrap" our focus of attention,
leaving a very constricted perspective with which we usually
  
strongly identify.
I had a client who arrived one day for a session red-faced and
fuming. Jack immediately launched into a tirade about the event that
  
was "causing" his distress.
It seems that he had submitted a proposal to his boss that he had
  

  
In•Ile had worked very hard oil thi%        
* pee* I,itV Ilt011.
hop:1.1%00a i'sitilit in a\i'l•ilxil!ri(*ect" t)ytinie he submit tvti it. !ix
ilivia's31 andjack WO told th.lt IlltICil of it lizo value
","teentsstrUCk him (the, boss] as "meaningless..
butthatoneotNcY Lov rc_. enough.
because it was not delineatedII
It was dear that Jack had not heard one word past meaningless,
riggered a trance identity we later labeled
This Word had instantly t
" Jack had then suffered predictable
Nne ever gets sic.
as  
emotional distress as a result.
asked lack to tvCitale the experience in our session. lie
desciribed how be had felt prior to rtTeiving his boss' feedback:
confidentsvertexpansive, and excited. During the feedback, Jack's
attention quickly narrowed tot he word meaningless and he
promptty age-regressed mall those ,chriskihoaolcii eoxf petherinein,c,neostwgictitlt
father, with his teachers, with his ptie
me." A chain of prior events, all linked by the common trance
identity experience of "No one ever gets me," was automatically
activated by a certain word. One moment•Jack was in an expanded
state  
* which his work was going well; the next moment, with the
utterance of those few words, he had flipped into a contracted state
of anger, resentment, and hopelessness. This unpleasant statewas
comprised of a cluster of Deep Trance Phenomena that drastically
narrowed his field of attention and his very sense of selfhood.
Symptoms and problems are the outermost manifestations of a
creative, generative interaction of Deep Trance Phenomena. Once
the dusters of Deep Trance Phenomena that coalesce into symptoms
or problems are identified, they can be altered, shifted, and inter-
rupted, At that point, they no longer operate "automat i cal ly ." At that
point, the person beset by the symptom/problem finally experiences
himself or herself as a crecuor rather than as a victim of subjective
experiences beyond his or her control.
Identities as TranceStates : A Teaser
The formation of hypnotic identities •is •discussed in detail in
Chapters 10 and 19. The concept of identity as a trance state is a
crucial one when working with DeepTrance Phenomena. In a sense,
hypnotic identities arethe "piece de resistance," the grand culmi-
  
  

  

	  

	Home Is Where
the Trance Is
	TRANCES are often a necessary means of surviving and
negotiating the physical universe. They are like tunnels you walk
through in order to maneuver and focus in the world. Some trances
are functional and pleasing; others are dysfunctional and pathologi-
cal. Some trances will be in alignment with your goals, while others
will impede you.
Deep Trance Phenomena are, at one and the same time, a means
of survival for the overwhelmed child and the core of symptom
structure for the coping adult. Those trance phenomena that create
adult symptomatology usually have their origins in childhood
patterns of experience.
Erickson (1952/1980) has noted that ". . .hypnosis depends upon
inter- and intrapersonal relationships [that] are inconstant and alter in
accord with personality reactions to each hypnotic development" (p.
139). The context of Erickson's statement is the induction of therapeu-
tic trance in the therapy session. I have found that patients' abilities to
go into therapeutic trance in session stem from a more primary
  

  
  
f trance as ' A .11f 'Inter- and intrapersonal relation.  
ns.it
Pale Lite
20 ' Mill"4, a „locos o _orti with personality reactio
clxirensrifedincci °slant anu wterinaa;
This( s at-alcrini,,11.c°n* perience of trance occurs throughout childhood
This mom PLta.P...? ex'.
 the Creation and maintenance of Deep Tra/Ice
ouithoodin adulthood, trance as symptom is
and forms the txtsis 1°1 .
plicnonieria Liu wucell) process which was originally generatet-i
,kriel ghOtil 4
an iniraperSOnal (Self4PIC);a1% (self_to_other) interactions (more on this in-"
by a series of inierpersoi
Chapter 7).
entre Phenomenon is designed to maintain, support
and protect the integrity of the child. During the early stages or its
en,:
Each Re PT""--        •
development.
that is, the Particular
the Deep Trance Phenomenon is context-depend
trance arises in response to a particulargainstsinaikuiliutids,
the
, st; such as angrY mmonstrations from Daddy. Gradually, as
ufulness of this Deep Trance Phenomenon increases, it
psychic autonomy and is generalized to a wide variety of
iated stirnuli. In the case of the child who is repeatedly remon.
of intra
sawed by the father, soon all (or most) men who are in positions of
authoritY v;iil evoke the Deep Trance Phen0Men011.
Each Deep Trance Phenomenon represents a particular facet or
expression of consciousness. Children will create whichever trance
states= most helpful in buffering them against the first experience
they are not able to integrate, (This type of experience is often
labeled as "trauma" or "crisis," but it is really any event or inter-
  
  
  
  
action that exceeds the child's capacity to fully feel, process, and
integrate.) •Each child will have a proclivity toward certain trance
states more than others— which is why adults vary so dramat i cal ty
in their ability to experience the various hypnotic phenomena. Mo
adults have had a lifetime of experience in creating the kind os ;
trance states that are most effective in handling their particular
circumstances.
0Since the Deep Trance Phenomenon worked so well in its
original context, the child then uses it to create an automatic
p
response to theenvironment in general. The ellVironment is no longer experienced as it is in the present moment but rather as it was in the past. As an adult, the individual brings his past, historical colitext of family experience with him lino the present via the creation Of one or MUre Deep Trance Phenomenon. it is therefore the I ?cep Ti al Ice
Phenomenon, originally created as a means of protect ing the ciii ki,
that is curttntly preventing the adult from being present ill present
  

when the patient insists on a content connection. My first Choi
Ace
22 . Tows Pale Iiix
ite process of the current symptomatolon
lc at an example of childhood molestation in slow m -6Y'
Olio,
is co MOVC direetlY into,
If WC iooult's symptomatology and ,
liow
so to speak. and then look at the ad.
k with ii, this difference will become apparent.
to %abe g molested by her father for the first time.
A Y°tIng girl is - in- I. e she creates the responses
ac
While that action is taking p
1't stand this"st,o, of, 'Pm
scared. I'm afraid, I'm bad, it hurts, can .h _— which later
suggestions in the forn. i of internal dia..
function as posthypnotic
loeues.This is followed by her unconscious creation of one or mor
ce°.ep Trance, Phenomenon to help her escape the experience and hiti
own responses toil. She may develop amnesia ("It never happened:;:
anor analgesia I.
body feels fine"), and/or dissociation ctit
wasn't sobatil.and/or negative visual hallucination (not seeing he;
external environment during the trauma), and/or negative auditory'
hallucination (not hearing the sounds occurring during the trauma;
and so forth. At some point, whichever trance states are most
 automatically.
Twenty years later she arrives for a session with a psychotherapist
complaining that she is non-orgasmic. (Some clients directly expit;
tothetherapist,"Iwant to work on a molest issue involving my faille 7
r. '
Others will say, s'I'm in a relationship with someone important right - IP
now and I can't have an orgasm.") What process is she using to shut '
•
don her body's naturalis sexual response the moment she i in an
intimate situation? By asking her to recreate her body sensations as she 1
shuts down. I can begin to identify the trance phenomena involv d
Whether or notyou as the therapist discover the content of tilte .
' trauma
that underliesthe current symptomatology, you can discover and alter
the trance phenomena that create it again and again in present time
You take the resenting problem — "I can't have an org ' ".
Y
ou let the client show you which Deep Trance Phenomena she uses
to create that symptomatic trance.
	

Most forms of therapy assume that dealing with content is at
least somewhat necessary for healing. If the client could just get to
the first time a certain trauma happened — and either (I raw it, relive
it, dream about it, understand it, analyze it, scream it, symbolize it
in imagery, or have its muscular counterparts kneaded -- then
	  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

  
I lorne Is Where the Tratice iA • /5                            
undoing repressions in variety of ways. . . . Here we witnes%
at his best as a therapim facilitating the proces% of
Frickson
ink;ight....After a great deal of initial resistance, X exspeorrlisefr:enehseur
of insights about her family dynamics and the re
1100d
sympiorns•
While some of Erickson's therapeut ic interventions wen.: aimed
at lac i lit it i rig conscious insight , lie is mostfor for leaving matters
to "autonomous unconscious change." The point is that even when
Erickson was focusing on evoking unc onscious. change, content
issues were still involved: he meant that the necessary•insights and
understandings could be grasped on an unconscious level. So he was
still concerning himself with content to some extent; what•varied
was the level of consciousness at which the content was appre-
iscussing the two kinds of therapeutic work, conscious and
itilenicidc(nndsdce ious, Erickson and Rossi ( 1979) explain that first, the
patient is introduced to the "difference between the conscious and
unconscious mind." Once that is achieved, Erickson will continue
to explore on both levels, leaving change on an unconscious level
if the patient is willing, or bringing it into conscious awareness if
that seems more beneficial:
The activated. . .associations may remain at an unconscious
level, where during trance they are turned over to effect an
apparently autonomous resolution of the patient's prob-
lem. It is possible that hypnotherapy can take place entirely
at an unconscious level without the patient (and sometimes
even the therapist) knowing the "why" of the cure. The
patient only knows a problem has been resolved. No insight
in the conventional analytic sense is involved [because the
insight remains unconscious].
. . . .A period of therapeutic trance. .may [alsol stimulate
associations to a problem that the patient wants to talk
about. This route naturally leads to insight therapy. After an
initial experience of trance, the therapist may simply wait
for the patient to bring up relevant associations. If none are
forthcoming, the therapist may again review the nature and
possible sources of the problem to ascertain if the patient
now has more access to relevant associations. (p. 165)
  
  
26 • Minces •        .ous ways of working with conteh            
pLitt
d many ingeni
.•
Flicks°1"leivel°Pe ous of which was his "jigsaw" metho(i
al and intellectual aspects of a past I rau 01
:pnetittOinf:a'crildr-- -.271s:ctileflin;j:1:Itihe°n following quotation he describes hov:,Ii
• danger of flunkinp
ApPetlui4` "student who was
workcci with a medica. studs:refused to attend any class° out
front ers 1?,11
of selloo,1 becaEusrieckliseotorroffend to work with him in
(iermatoiogy.
6first spend the next week 44 try to t
StUnmarizing
iitcsiotes, iv:westing tot lehis Jivsltv
remcnitvr WI131 he had
lainS (Erickson Sc Rossi, 1 98 1):
Otte
approach. Frit:1:•on r
low you to divide up Your pal teat' .
liblems. For oample, :I patient conics to you with sg,.„;
lv rtioiic can 4ilsort
tiirar tunatic experience in tile past which has resulted
slate, One can put him in a
phobit- readion or an anNiety
and suggest that he recover only t lie elm' lona!
aspects of dint experience. in other words, one can split
tiro mince
off the intellectual aspects of a problem for :t pat kilt and
leave only the emotional aspects to he dealt with. One can
have a patient ON out very thoroughly over the etuot lona'
,ivects of triumatic c\paicnce and then•later to him
„cover t11 jigsaw fashionthat is, It him recover a
little bit attic intellectual content of the traumatic cxperi.
euce of the past, then a little bit of the emotional content
and these ti ifferent aspects need not tieccssarily be connected.
Thus, you lei the young medical student see the pi tclifork,
then you let liini feel the pain he experiences in the gluteal
then you let him
region, fin you let him see the color green ,
Icelitimself stiff and rigid, and then you let hint feel the full
.ousof the mei-
horror of his stiff'neis and rigidity. VariIif 
you to event doll y
dent recovered in this jigsaw fashion allow
recover an entire, forgotten traumatic ever le nt" e of
childhood that had beengoverning this person' s behavior
in medical school 11'
an( lam 'capping us We very seriously .
  
(pp. 6-7) (Italics added
  
I tere we see Erickson using therapeutic trance states to "divide
up" the patient's traumatic responses (content), which are seen as
responsible forhis current phobic reaction. A trance is induced and
________________
Home is Where the Trance is • 27
  
the
riertce in which he alternately relives intellectual and patient is lead through a carefully orchestrated Sa.j.nigsaemotion  
ai
aspects of the originating trauma. This is certainly one way of
approaching the presenting problem of the student's avers
derilat°1Crelasses.ion to the
Ari0ir perhaps
 simpler and easier way is to simply observe
and utilize the trance state underlying the student's current
symptomatology. What trance states does he use to create his
strong. phobic response'? Probably a combination of age regression,
ayti:v>inthintitliz and negative visual halil)uhcoibniicttirocnase.tt
9t ranee phenomena, the
pseudo-0 sr oi el real
working,
whether or not the original trauma is recovered.
cwaillivbc? IdiliescsliiPulsite-clitile current symptomatology cannot be produced
without the trance phenomena that comprise it.2-catieke1.3e" ep Trance
Phenomena are the "ingredients" Of the phobic
This brings us to the basic if subtle d ifferrnee betwetn Erickson's
it mice approaches and those presented I serein. Erickson preferred to
use therapeutic trance to work toward semiconscious change" in
patients. 1 prefer to use the syinvtoinatie•trance state the pH! icilt
brings to the session :Ind work toward a "no-trance" state of
expanded awareness (more on the • `tlo-trance" state in Chapter 41
Erickson was also quite willing to work %vitt) content, but hv
would find ingenious ways of doing it (such as dissociating the
intellectual and emotional components of a trauma; or using two-
level communication to talk directly to the unconscious and evoke
inherent resources and abilities; or to reframe the symptom via
stories, metaphors, puns, analogies.) In terms of working with
process, he would work with the behaviors going on in the moment
and tit ilize them for cues as to how to proceed to evoke resources and
new associations.
Erickson's way of working with process was summarized by
Rossi (Erickson, Rossi & Rossi, 1976):
On careful reflection it will be found that this orientation to
process is more frequently prominent in Erickson's approach
than his concern about content. In inducing trance, for ex-
ample, he utilizes the process of confusion to depotentiate
consciousness; the actual subject matter or content of the
  
confusion is irrelevant . In training a hypnotic subject it is the
  
24; • i'lisot.c, rein le 1 lw            
of ex tionC in ("le anti        11 sc I es 0 1. phaYi icht thiter
tIo•nt that tsum'. not the content of- II le
pivces..
,hoonicrui..conicnt, 1k) be slur. is impool taut, hut ik
AS ( Cincie to gain entry to rite patient 's
iS uwaily
attention ;Ind ..t...sociative stnIctures where the process of
theispy can be facilitated. (p• 224)
This is still different from the type of process work
describing wherein the person is not "trained" in experiencinill
phenomena, but rather brings leis per own trame
various hypnotic
symptoms into the scs.sion. Content is used only as a stimulus to het r
the ciient recreate the symptom via its underlying Dt
ep Tram;
Phenomena. Furthermore, my focus is not on evoking resources and
associations but on removing the barrier of the symptomatic tram
state. Once the trance phenomena underlying the problem is shifted
        imempted, reassociated, or dissolved, the person's resourcesI
automatically "float" to the surface.
The next chapter provides introductory case samples of how
Deep Trance Phenomena can be worked with in the therapy session.
  
  
  
  
  
MOST OF US automatically (or "unconsciously") recreate
states of consciousness from the past as trance phenomena in the
present. Many states of awareness involve some combination of
Deep Trance Phenomenon; any state that is problematic can be
assumed to contain one or more trance phenomena. The task of the
psychotherapist therefore becomes one of de-hypnotizing the cli-
ent: "awakening" the client's awareness to the deep trance that is
being recreated from the original family context and which continues
to funct ion, unnoticed, as the invisible "glue" of the client's current-
day symptom complex.
In essence, this awakening amounts to counting one s self in the
therapy. Most forms of psychotherapy do not really count the
person  as a creative self; she is viewed as a product of all the other
factors tl tat are counted: her feelings, her thoughts, her associations,
  

  
Trances peoPle Live  
30sesnesareations, her muscle tones, her memories,
here roblems, her body
But ,all only creations of the self behind like
and her dIt'anis" pas. 0.11 her sifhtirind while this can seem
attitude toward seeing
the trance. at tileg the
.n major one.
unnecessary philosophizing,
client as a cmative being 1)
from the Upanishads that beauti_
lid to count the self. Actor
There i5 a well-known story
fay makes this point about forgetting
_ ten men waling through the woods. They
to the story, there arccross Because the current
port a river, which they must•- --ent is so
cstoroninegli-Itley are afraid that some of them might be washed away. so
they deicide to hold hands and lock arms as they cross. This way. no
one will get lost. They reach the other side and, just to be sure, they
that everyone has made it across.
decide to count to verify
The first man counts I. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. 9. "Somebody is
missing!" he shouts in alarm. The next person in line begins to
So. "Oh. no! Somebody is missing! Who
count: 1, 2,
did we lose?" Each person, in turn, counts the, lot of them and comes
up with only 9 people.
Finally, Finally, sage comes by and, hearing the nature of their
complaint, realizes their mistake. He counts them, one by one, and
reaches 10. -You are the tenth one," the sage says to each.
How does this story translate in the therapy session? For me it
change the
means that the therapist learns to communicate with the creative
being, the "self," behind the trance; it is the self that can
ceeds or fails
trance and hence the symptom. The reason therapy suc
  
pist, or to the severity or
is not always due to the skill of the thera
always due to the trance states
tenacity of early traumas; nor is it 
themselves. It can be due to the being as a creative self.  
As I have said, it is my view that whenever a client presents a
problem or symptom to me, he or she is also presenting a trance
state. Symptom structures are supported by Deep Trance Phenom-
enon that come in clusters and form an internal latticing of
associations and responses that the person experiences as problem-
atic. These clusters of trance phenomena will reveal themsel ves in
an autonomous fashion to the observant therapist.
I mentioned the alcoholic client who, as the session tit ifolded,
spontaneously began to age regress. I requested that she maintain
continued eye contact with me during the regression. Quite suddenly
  
  
32 • Tnpices        „;,es hrinking of the focus of attention, At th
i~jlP
focus e
sP:b eleCrCk(1.5071. :SS the CliCSE shrink his toirc trance ce s
attention even more, in order to mate
a therapeu„tate(,)r
the reverse is also trut-. It Is this very
it functions in the symp.
I am su,.
gating at
narrowing or shrinkingt of_ksattthenetion.
person into an automatic respott,
pattern resuIting in a non -utilization of unconscious resources.
I 4, the symptomatic trance state of an anxiety
tomatic trancesiate,loc
attack. (pseudo-orientation in toe),I shrink my focus of attention
For examPles.
to such an extent that I feel totally .cut off from the world (I movehave 
from an interpersonai trance to an
and that sense of helplessness
idea how the ma.ice the attack stop.,essness
(age regression) escalates the anxiety. and even further shrinks My
to focus on anything but anxiety. I "don't see" the phone
(negative hallucination) and I "forget" (amnesia) that I can pick it
I "forget" that I have had many periods of time
up and call a friend;
free of anxiety attacks; I •"forget" that I have
chat were completely
ad control over countless past situations in my life. All of these
untapped by me as long as my i
hadintense self-to-self
resources remain
trance_with its shrunken focus of attention
on and the Deep Trance
Phenomena of pseudo-orientation in time and amnesia remains in
tact. hi this statelimagine a very vivid and frightening future that
is devoid of options and solutions and filled with the uncontrollable,
assaultive sensations of anxiety attacks.
Any interruption. shift, or alteration of the Deep TranpcePviidiee-
nomena that is creating the anxiety attack, however, wili ro
access to the otherwise non-utilized resources. The resources can
now "float" to the surface of consciousness. I suddenly remember
that a day ago I felt fine,l now can see the phone on my desk, and
I think of calling my friend to talk about it. In short, I have "popped
out" of my identification with the Deep Trance Phenomena creating
the anxiety attack, and once "outside," resources become readily
available. In everyday life, any appropriate stimulus can interrupt or
alter the Deep Trance Phenomenon: my phone might ring, I remember
an important call I need to make, I discover I am out of toilet paper
and have to go to the market!
In the therapy setting, the therapist can directly facilitate an
interruption, shift, or alteration of the symptomatic trance state. In
the case of the alcoholic woman de scribed above, I began to
________________
"You Are the Tenth One • 33
  
differentiate various aspects of her experience of fogging me out of
ion (her negative hallucination) by sugge
arent•? Opaque?
her vision
In answering my questions, she thereby made differentiations in
whatTranslucent? Did it have any colors in it? Did it h.
tions in the fog she was seeing. Was the fog trans        •
any texture/
sting slight varia-
what had been an undifferentiated mass.
Once she could no longer follow the path of her customary
negative hallucination that created her symptom of excessive
drinking. she was gradually able to stop. An in all, her treatment
spanned six months of intensive work. Although many kinds of
treatment interventions were used in working with her symptom of
alcoholism, the critical one was interrupting and altering the deep
trance patterns of negative hallucination and age regression.
I should mention that I require clients who are drug- and
alcohol-addicted to participate in some twelve-step program while
they are also working in therapy. Attending these groups helps to
remove denial (amnesia), to create additional awareness of the
addictive issues, and, of course, provide a network of support.
By asking clients to describe their symptoms while breathing
and looking at me, I interrupt the self-to-self trance of the symptom
by placing them (via eye contact) in a self-to-other trance with me.
This changes the context in which the symptom occurs and adds the
therapist as a resource in present time. (This is a common technique
in Gestalt therapy and was demonstrated to me in 1975 by Eric
Marcus, M.D., and Jack Rosenberg, Ph.D.) Erickson has pointed
out that the adult in present time has resources that the traumatized
child did not have. By keeping the client focused in the present, she
is able to take the present with her into the past. This differs from
therapies which have the adult re-experience past traumas without
the buffer of present-time resources. Therapists need to understand
that the client survived the trauma and later created resources to
cope with it. To pretend those resources are not currently present
and that the client needs to relive the trauma without them, is to
needlessly dramatize a situation again that no longer reflects the
present.
As an example, let's take the young woman above who com-
plains of being non-orgasmic. I might say:
"Jill, when you are having sex, at the moment that you go numb
  
  

  
  
  
  
  
• Trances PeoPk liceyouto get a three-dimension
I would like
You might see this picture a. 11
or space out or INCze up.
in front of us in the r00,11-
pictum of the moment you freeze up.
your mind's eye. or perhaps floating
of those
 Notice yourmuscies. ..Tell me which are tight and whic h are 1004".
to yourself...kinds
lights
...Notice what you aiv saying
are going through your mind?"
my stomachlY:
Jill might answer slow
While recreating her symptom-trance,
ow is tight. • .
"My shoulders are tight. . .my j
tight...I'm holding my
touch me, don' come near me. clod t hurt me ."
breath. . i'm thinking to myself, D is
with that
an':
"NI right. Jill, what I'd like you to do is to merge -
picture...Continue to hold your muscles •tightly while •I,
You 1.,reathe
and look at me."
In order for a symptom to remain a symptom, there has to
be a holding of the breath.holding allows the person
to shift into a self-to-self trance:. he or she. is no longer
present with you but is back watching an old internal movie
and re-experiencing a past event (age r.egression). When I
request that clients continue to experience the symptom
while they breathe and look at me, I am offering them the
possibility of experiencing their symptoms fully but with
me in present time. This initial directive ("breathe and look
at me") now includes the world in what previously was a
very fixed trance and lays the groundwork for the thera-
peutic variations in the trance that are suggested later.
Requesting the direct, sustained eye contact further helps to
stimulate or trigger those dusters of Deep Trance Phe-
nomena that already function autonomously within clients
as defense mechanisms that help shield them from the
intensity of interpersonal contact.
After a few minutes I observe a change in the intensity of Jill's
eye contact and ask, "What's going on right now?"  
"I guess I'm just spacing out." [Dissociation)
"What l'd like you to do isspace out even more while you breathe
and look at me."
At this point I recognize that she is beginning 10 demonstrate
for me the process of how she goes about not having an
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
sit t■ ■iti On V1114 Lis a    
pet.on slam. largc:sized tx 1),./ %:4,%fcure.,,suitipty, the.the
mat cogr;iti(oun8s11;1111:ItYt
vinett7rntahliiiiletib‘;taire';nit'ale12:sisiletilgee'sP):14:siti:i;I:t‘he inte
perceptions; age regression lc
he .tin's visual
the person at the emotional •level when the initial trance pi let lomelvla
help to diston t yv
were
crated for purposes of survival.
\Vhcn I began working with a woman whose presenting co,.
Pwas anorexia-bulimia, I had no idea what Deep Truce
Phenomena were mating tier behavior. My attitude was one cof
intense curiosity. "l'In lase inated. Teacii me how you create reate anore xia.
when you are on the verge of bingeing on the 10 bags of
potato chips you eat a day, what does ►your body feel like? Can yon
dewribe the sensations you feel? Can you make a picture of th;
intense moment when you are beginning to want to binge? As y
breathe atui look at me, recreate that moment. ..As you breath °-
..e and
look at me, just let yourself recreate that moment. . ."
trance that deepens quite rapidly. She shifts her body As she beto duplicate her past trance state, she slips into
yeproattiosnar
chair, draws her lett up toward her chest and curves h
inoutindea
her legs, intertwining them in a tight grip.
I say softly, "Just continue to breathe and look at me. Breathe
and look at me...What are your thoughts. . .What are your sensa-
tions?"
She answers in a muffled, faraway voice, "Don't be close to
me, . . don't touch me. . don't come near me."
As I sit and observe her, this woman is showing me how she    
goes into trance to create her symptomatology. Interest i ngl y,
there is little to no self•consciousness involved in this
Particular approach, because the very focus on habitual
trances assures clients that they will be protected. On the
otherhand, if I had said,"Lei 's begin to handleyour molest
  
  
  
4
Trance Or NoTrance?
Marrying East and West
  

________________
S I MENTIONED in Chapter I , what I call the "no-trance
A
ian hypnotherapists call "therapeutic trance," and
ow Eastern meditative traditions call "meditation." We are all
Erickson
phenomenon our most natural and optimal
state,"
01 di II erent lenses. in Asia water is called
sritkei7-1:x.11.::-Igs.i1-11 ibiLltrt hrou
paune, in Nurope it is called aqua. in the Middle East it is called mai,
It•s the same substance, whatever you call it. In all analogous
manner the natural nate, the ►o-trance state, the therapeutic trance
.stare, and the meditative state are all different words describing a
similar phenomenological experience. This natural state has no
boundaries that separate t1 individual from the rest of the cosmos.
Pain and problems arise only when we leave this state and identify
ourselves with limiting ideas.
Because meditation is often misunderstood in the West, its
relation to hypnotherapy is also likely to be misunderstood. Briefly,
let us compare the two.
Meditation is often discussed in terms of three stages: darana,
39
  
votes Feof)1 1-it        tine on a fixed point; dhyanat  
40 •wili,,.
oi
of ;tendon becomes an unbrolc"11
hiGrist  he practice plc:en:11os
which is a total cessation of,eld
is tbe Ira 1/t:irai'llicoll tandsaniatihi,
flow ot on""'"---- -ino;nship. Santaoccurs when the bounti2Ii:
persopea
n _wl:o is cc. oncentrating and the object be`411,t%
As satnadhi continues, dispas ,Ilt
subject-Aect 'el°
concentrated upon dis p
loses
all tendencies to become identisii")"11
between the
follows; the individual
with the contents of the .mind.
in atherapeutic trance wherein th.
a free now of associations without identification, attachnm-"e`nr,e i%
This is similar to being .
ii feelings. and emotions pass through
4T
interruption. ThouguistID" tilt
person without the ordinary damper of .judgments or labels. 7
meditation, this experience occurs as the meditator whine_In
the,
flow of mental contents without attaching to them.
Tosuperimpose these terms anframework, Ericksoo,
hypnotherapeutictechniquesconstitute dharna, the means by \silk,
a person's attention was focused and narrowed, allowing the persg,"1
to then slip into "therapeutic trance"---or dhyana meditation. what
differentiates therapeutic trance from meditation is that in Cherdpe ait
trance, the mind and its conte nts are worked with—they are rein "1
InItd
meditation the mind is simply observed without intedrvwsniti:one'sn. In
therapeutic trance, a problem is being presented for chan
-reasociated, utilized, reinterpreted, dissociated, andon. in
t
meditation, the only problem is one's identificationge, Iii 
________________
Trance Or No-Trance •
  
„n . was one of' the most pleasing experiences. What is
his  Tremendous com fort. insd  a stars, the planets,
tthc be aches. I couldn't (eel the weight. (pp. 129-13()
otilrntai)witlicliisearatedIdiaserlidalclear. sense of non-identification (yogis call this
calling the no-trance state (also in sainadhi and
there is a sense .of flow, a sense of perc
5, .eildotims na sgS ai Onnd" )g-.0 in g
a senseof being and hiswithout judg-
;lent or identification. Erickson called his taste•of this experience
-.teeing in the middle of nowhere. By contrast, in trance states of
identification we constn. ct our focus of attention and fuse with each
occurrence in the day; our sense of self and well-being
alintdicteuvctrY  
ae commensurately.
One of my clients put it this way:
1 ant very familiar with that feeling of coming and going.
It's a feeling of things passing through me and I can see
them all. Nothing sticks, nothings gets interrupted in its
flow. It's a very rich, very free space to be in. I feel at my
best in that state—especially when I can carry
it into
situations. At my job, large volumes of things pas
i work
me —people's requests and demands, personnel dynamics,
political considerations, and so forth.
I have trouble when it feels like all these elements come and
Chit something solid---that would be your trance state. When
the outer flow hits something solid in me, I begin to lose my
good feeling and feel myself shrink down and contract
(trance). Then I get confused, disoriented and even a little
bit dissociated. I can't keep track of things, I can't process
the flow anymore. Everything sticks, stops, and halts. I
literally have to stop and go outside, or go into a vacant
room and just "space out" for a few minutes. I let myself
veer hack into that expanded space and then I feel better. I
  
feel like I can cope again.
The trance states we normally call feelings ("I feel good,""I fed
bad," "1 am being rejected") are the states in which attention is
shrunken and focused, identified and attached. These are the states
  

  
on               
4: • Tyanc6 Pc(141Li`e      
at itogh_irlad:1(iiiclui ithtirae:ntissctfilraielibicintiletran:ristcckke'sfilotdiniesinansn::°Tiin:beithitieinnggbe. States
fosuocnifriinympe tc:itnoxednsdst4kallotti
91°1141. racy
being. I find it fascinating that.somi
wfritinow call the no fratiee State 07f S Cm meditative tradit.reli%
For example, Gilligan writes (198 ):
some of
 ions.
. . in trance] can feel both "here" and "there,'
with you and disconnected from you, "a part or' and ..apan
from and xperience. This... gives rise to a nonconcept"
and nonverbal experiential state of unity. It is a more
primary, inclusive way of relating than the separatina"
ocither/or" logic characterizing analytical, conscious pr:*
ferentiate relatrons ("this"
cess. In other words, trance pr.r s.oc..thessatels .te: .1d.ritoleixuepet se featrnaettluaaretlios:b;
cbso• and "than, while conscious processes tend to dif
trance] sugzest trance as a state of deep
sorption where a person can operate independently from
the constraints of regulatory, error-oriented conscious
in
onscious
process. (p. 42)
Two more passages by Gilligan (1987):
The hypnotized subject usually feels little need to try to do
anything or the compulsion to "plan ahead." Ex
 Perienc
-just seems to happen" and "flows quite effortlessly."
1e
(p.43)
(Trance] can allow a person to disidentify with and move
, to pain, a behavior pat-
beyond certain attachments (e.g.
tem, a perceptual style). . . .Trance is an opportunity to
return to a basic essence of one's identity. (p. 43)
The Paradox of It All
In Erickson's therapeutic trance state (which I call no-trance),
he takes a pal ient's symptomatology, focuses it further, and thereby
________________
TTm%ce Or No-Trance? • 43
person enter a more re. natural state in which thoughts
It_leelerisngth:eniotions and assoc. i.ations come and go in a state of de
relaxation and comfort. This is similar to the meditative state prior
to saTnhuilsdli:riings us to the classic Paradoxical truism that the sym
is the cure. In Gestalt Therapy Now (1970), editors FaganPanrCI
'lard described what they termed the "law of paradoxical change."
Ss‘'hime'ply put, whatever thought or emotion is completely experi-
enced disappear. into something else and the experiencer enters a
well-being. Erickson had his own understanding
dee
apialdradoxical task of not only further experiencing
pened state ot
aPPlication ot paradox: The patient. was preasieenstyeldivwtoitinh rut
also worsening it. Erickson believed that such an approach demon-
strated to the patient his or her ability to change the symptomatology.
The implication is, If YOU can make it worse in response to my
cli:pcpz /1.iscoamtioankeorirsbyemrt symptom m prescription (Rossi, 1986).
requlenstR.
of hypnosis." By asking the patient .to experience and worsen the
oyossui
he explains its effectiveness in terms•of his "state-dependent theory
symptom, "we are presumably turning on right-hernisphericpro-
cesses that have a readier access to the state-dependent encoding of
the problem." This means that the therapist is thus working with the
actual ingredients (psychobiological states) of the problem, rather
than with its rarefied, cognitive version.
The means by which a therapeutic outcome is evoked from a
symptomatic state comes through the narrowing and fixating of
attention, which eventually triggers a spontaneous expansion of
attention. A phobia, as it is experienced chronically by a person,
requires an intensely shrunken focus of attention. I would treat the
phobia by intensifying that experience of narrowed focus and
thereby lead the patient into an expanded state of comfort, relaxation,
and deep change (therapeutic trance). The symptom itself is used to
create a more therapeutic natural state.
It is paradoxical. Intensifying the dynamic that creates the
symptornatology actually helps the person move out of it into an
expanded state. In other words, the more you shrink your focus of
attention in therapeutic trance, the more your perspective spontane-
  
ously expands (a no-trance state, in my terms).
Gilligan has noted the paradoxical nature of trance (1987):
  
  
  
  
44 • Trancis ritlel L                
Ives a paradox.. .is, a
;cal both/and logic. That •
;dm"illIA‘:i°111both sides of a complementary dist inc don or. Nri
"Tram.
ti        de. and 'outside,' 'subject' and 'object,thi4,
ant .fat,' 'inside'PP.
U.
In the o.trance state I am dfethsciris.b,itanigd,,,tthheatpe;son
41)_fro
lager than or4.-ontains both sides°. ". al lowin..;:le%
to exist. identification •with either side is so reduced that an irate
to
tote naturallyMmes es si oonn a non v,„_,
and eff(ntiesslY occurs—many
 "YOU" (the larger you behind all these creations) will
ofih101C1: hea:1
enter latilld
level. Often, clients experience a
of their issue without identifying with either.
The same principle is true in meditation. As mentioned,
practice of &tom or dityana, one's attention, is concentrated
single point or object. By doing so, "you" (the small you u
itlentification.s and attachments) will eventuallyyou °I
your natural state.to
lien: is the point of intersection between Erickson's therape ;
trance state, my no-trance state, and the Eastern tradition as reTtC
sented
• the philosophy of Tao. In the words of Lao-tzu (195ric:
In order to contract a thing, one should show his standard
first; in order to wea.ken, one will surely strengthen first;
order to overthrow, one will surely exalt first; in order to
take, one will surely give first.
This is called "subtle wisdom" in the Tao, and it also reflects what
contemporary clinicians call the law of paradoxical change: to
change something, increase it rather than trying to undo it. if
attention is already shrunken. shrink it more; amplify problematic
emotional responses rather than trying to make them decrease. By
doing this, you will become part of the Tao (according to Eastern
wisdom, Tao-te Ching, Chapter 36), you will enter Erickson's state
of therapeutic trance, and you will enter what I call the no-trance
  
state. They are all similar, in essence.
The paradox of "symptom as cure" as it relates to Eastern
traditions is perhaps best illustrated in the experience of the Zen
  
Rossi and fichaku describe the paradoxical process by which
a Zen student uses the intense focus of the koan to enter an expanded
sue (Rossi & Ryan, 1991):
  

  
40 . Trances PeePie U"'    
eat and re
'Night and day ldid not steep; I forgot both t 0
on) nulls_ !*
suddenly 3 great doubt (experience of absorpt i
fowl ii;elfbef°"; ine.3' it v414'b as though I were frozen so i1.1-
in die midst 0( an ice weet extending tens of thousands id
r filled my breast and I could neithet: Of
miles. A Poi itY
alone retrained. Although I sat ? f
forward TIM retreat. To all intents and purposes I was outgo
my mind and Um fkoan)
the Lecture Hall and listened to the Master s lecture. it w 41)
as though 1 were haring a discussion from a dist„„as
sdaotomilieeadr
outside the hall. At times it felt as though I was no'ati ce
through the air.ring
-This gate lasted for several days. Then I ell:in....ace
thetemple be and I was suddenly t ra n •f
the sound of
It was as if a sheet of ice had been smashed or a jade i
had fallen with a crash. Suddenly I returned to my nsoeotn‘‘setries!e  
licit then that I had achieved the status of Yen-t•ou, who
 the three periods of time encountered
slightest loss (although he had been murdered•by bandits)
All my former doubts vanished as though ice had melted'
away. In a loud voice I called: 'Wonderful, wonderful.
 There isnocycle of birth and death through which one must
pass. There is no enlightenment one must seek. The Sett_
totem-hundred koans handed down from the past have not
the slightest value whatsoever.' It [InPress, italics added]
What I call no-trance, what Erickson calls "therapeutic trance,"
and meditation all involve complete absorption in an object—as in
the abovecase, akoan. But it could be a spot on the wall, a crystalline
rock, OT the request to "breathe and look at me." In meditation a
mantra or special object of interest is typically used to promote the
experience of shrinking the focus of attention and becoming
disidentified or detached. My no-trance state and Erickson's
therapeutic trance are equivalent to the experience of not narrowing
one's focus of attention by identifying and attaching. As mentioned,
samadhi and other high states of meditation take this experience
even further by dissolving the very boundary between subject and
object.
Along more mundane lines, any activity that requires you to
  
cltOio(rA the following descriptioilmks& •-:1 °f the        
;sr tuolb(Ile9n8d7c))::- harmonize
main prim
The second
with the, attack. You practice. Ai. In thc above exam,* of
of training
being pulick-bd. if you had spent months
strengthening and hardening your abdominal muscles. yot;
yourself —not by getting off the
would be able to defend
tead by blending and absorbing your attackers
line but ins 
. .To truly harmonize with the attack,i, would
ouid
punch. 
you also would not slow the Punch
not only get off the line,
oppose it in anyIn . way. fact, you might put your
down or 
energy to it in the
hand on the punching arm and add ern,
direction it was already going- You have harmonised and
blended with the energy of the attack. By projecting your
energy
iii tie same direction the attacker projects his, you
see your attacker' •s point of view.
....The third basic principle after you have gotten of the
line and harmonized with your attacker's energy is to lead
that energy further than it originally intended to go. thu‘-
s,
taking control of a. Then you can throw or otherwise
control your allacker.The attacker thus provides most of
the energy for handling his attack. (pp. 337-338) [italics
added]
What an excellent summary of the Ericks. onian principle of
utilization. formulated hundreds of years ago in an entirely inde-
pendent context! When read from the. perspective of Aikido
philosophy, the notion ofgoingwith the direction of the individual's
energy rather than trying to obstruct or divert it does not setm
paradoxical at all—it seems quite logical!
Another way of stating this principle of paradox as it applies to
therapy is, by asking clients to do what it is they do, trance naturally
fm :us. They shrink their focus of attention, and by doing so, they
pop into a no-trance state —which means they arc in a state of
comfort and harmony, free of attachments and identifications.
Me4litation contains the same paradox: by narrowing the focus
of attention. the anent ion event ual ly becomes diffused and detached.
Flow does this idea tramlate into everyday life? We go out into
the world in a no-trance of natural state. Then we lose ourselves (we
________________
INi, rvitivel • 49
  
let catight till 111 V AriOlIN.11.111t t• SIMI'S)we focus our ititentio,, mut
limarshali ow.icationslo accomplish various tasks. We t [mkt?
and decisions.deniancled in our work, :mid
itti:tillgii:v1tellildtse'nct‘i'filylitwialltih°1elisic°-li--we fuse, with it instead Of letting it flow
through us. That luStott or state of identification is a trance state -
tujci
ou observe the comings and goings of your
tco411!t:rirniteiltis'odwt°etoutaske the no-trance state into
feelings without becoming attached to them in a
:113t
subsides thoughts :fit Yxs' oaaltuelrdd"space. in your no-trance •space. You are the
trance state. The content of your day •rises and
*vac you are not your thoughts, feelings and emotions.
Emotion means outward motion. From the perspective of the
human potential movement (which includes Gestalt. Reichian,
Psychodrama, and all kinds of therapies that focus on the body and
emotions). neurosis is caused by an interruption in the outward flow
trance state), there is no interruption of any mot ionof any
or expression of emotion. If you are in your natural state thought,
 feeling, sensation or physical movement. What causes interruptions?
our judgments about what we are thinking and feeling, our internal
censor who evaluates and identifies with this side of the coin instead
of that esiddeistoinfletilieoncobien.
t
ween a trance and a no-trance state is, did
you create it or did it just happen to you? In a trance state the
experience happens to you, which means that you forget the larger
Self behind the experience as you shrink your focus of attention to
fit into that experience. You are not in touch with the fact that you
are the creator of the trance you are experiencing. In a no-trance
state, you arc aware of yourself as the creator of the experience,
which then moves you beyond the experience.
  
  
  
  
  
5
It's All in the Playing:
A Context of Approaches
pER i LAPS tins is an appropriate time to establish a context for  
this approach in re lat ion to the field of psychotherapy in general and
the Ericksonian model of hypnotherapy in particular.
Erickson introduced the naturalistic/utilization approaches to
trance work and therapy that have become the foundation for a
paradigmatic shift in the entire field of psychotherapy. In my work
with Ericksonian principles, I became convinced that Erickson's
naturalistic approaches could be integrated with Eastern orientations
and perspectives. Ilie key puzzle pieces—trance stales, inter-
rupting patterns of response , and symptoms—were present in each.
The differences between the two approaches arose in how each of
these puzzle pieces related to the other.
In the Eastern view, trance states arc continually coming and
going; the purpose of meditating is to Learn to develop some part of
the awareness so that it can watch or observe the flow of the trances
and the flow of consciousness. This observing part is thereby no
longer identified with the ebb and flow of mental life. On the next
  
51 • Trances PeD14 ."
c
too{will disk.uss howl)), 5.. process of observing or..vg..
        interpersonal conte x f.I ntittli
%tie 3 therapcutic. or oil
wectrin thropeum. appiolows, 1 found myself. drawl:1,44(k
'1%c%(.11101::Ifttil„ved taut (11 it fOCUA 011 FaSiefli orientatiOris
111klit. no1/4( rholoinetia of hyptiosi% I hail no comciotix sok,
NI:111111g 411 N%. 1‘S as MI althtt LC(1101111% paniCtIlar Ltyptika.41111r_rtit
coniv OM toMilli )1i7C If al Ice III it',11):(()14)11,. • 1V4)111, I fell
‘t,cle        miovicticntial level andti(ons Owl! (Ai
inhvpnotherapy. What ie al ited wa% that th int .t. Niwes are a71N
t the fabric (•I our daily Isle everiencevilell avr 14(44(
part 0/1,
svmpromatology.
In the liricksonhin model, 1 learned that (ranee states
could
induced or facilitated as a therapeutic internion ,„
`u
ctructure and access unconscious potenifaic 4Pt
svmptiolti
puzzle pieces came
sources.
in my brrak througli moment, those
t:Ithre.
in an entirely new pattern: I saw that although trance state% c-e--g%1
uscd to evoke resources and change. on an unconscious leveiii::
can also be---are used—to create the symptomatology wit'        lc)
1 which
we all struggle. I saw that the person who brings his or her r Probl nit
and symptoms to me is already in a trance state, and that it ise,
very trance stale that is interrupting his or her experience oi ju'
present moment, blocking unconscious potentials and rerourl
and creating problems and symptoms . The therapeutic intervencres,
  
then involves working with the trance state the person has ;Are:
created (which de•kpnotizes him/her), rather than inducing
facilitating another kind of trance that may or •may not be pivotal c;:o
the patient's symptom structure.
Certainly Erickson viewed trance states as natural occur ace
• daily life and even coined the now well-used tam, "commo-i;
everyday trance." Erickson's conception of trance revolutionized
the classical view of trance in hypnosis literature as being something
that is solely induced or suggested by the operator. Yet Erickson
nonetheless regarded trance as something to he induced via the
presentation of various indirect (or direct) techniques. For example,
in the opening paragraph of his 1952 art icle em it led "Deep I 1 ypnosic
and Its Induction," he writes (Erickson, 1952/1980):
A primary problem in all hypnotic work is the induct ion of
satisfactory trance states. Especially is this t rue in any work 
________________
Its ;in the Pitz-vtN: •
  
bliscd upon deep hypnosis. Even the problem of inducing
light trance states and maintaining them at a constant level
i$.°.itc.(1:;(11:nlifarificlyulat ttaostka.l (opf.139
 1f3o9u)r, to eight hours of initial
°induction training sufficient. !ben, since trance induc-
tion is one procesc and trance utilmitionanother__to
,ttlimtveic)mrauisPt neweelcesnsriillyi
rycpc:irig,tascn iwit;abek
accord with
permit the sii:rbujjeeccitse(tioh
with full regard for their capacities to learn and
nd. (p. 143)
tiwo a ro llott poed
Here trance induction is viewed as a "problem" and a ''difficult
risk" rcquiring several hours of skilled work. Since I view anyone
in trance already. I prefer to observe and
tarsarbelceinthgat is spontaneously presented. This is an
ss on the pan of the therapist. In my understanding
of Prickson•s work, he attempted to create a new trance to counter
the trance the client was already- in. I am suggesting•
et' 4Vhfie: oni
wait
 eipth. ri 0 ctet
that, instead of
creating something new in the form of another trance, work with the
trance that is presented. The goal in both approaches is the same: in
Erickson's tennis, therapeutic trance; in my terms, no-trance. Both
refer to that natural state of receptivity in which the self experiences
3 sense of intrinsic well-being.
There is a subtle but important difference between utilizing
presenting behavior and the presenting trance: Erickson observed
and utilized minimal cues of the presenting behavior in order to
narrow and fixate attention and induce a trance. I am interested in
observing and utilizing the presenting Deep Trance Phenomena
that are creating the symptom. The immediate behavior may be
secondary and derivative in relation to the underlying trance
mechanisms that are ongoing. I utilize only what is presented as the
symptomatic trance(s) by having the client re-create it in present
time.
Erickson's utilization approach focused on utilizing presenting
behavior (often in the form of minimal cues) to induce or facilitate
trance e xpe rie nce le created many ingenious ways °lc itvu rn vent ing
the patient's resistances to trans c• experience by utilizing those very
resistances. In the following excerpt, for example, we see his
creative use of suggestion as a means of itsde lining any response the
  
54 • Tninas P644 Litt        
makes as mslevitation" behavior. A.,person "who is
not
;he t        ggestions for hand levitation can be told a 2 Net,
patient
;:art-sflysu;;ordeti suggestions that, in essence, conven:Zie& ;Pit I
nonally viewed as non-responsive behavior into respon.: hatt.
°iVe
havior (Eficksms 1952/1980):
One often reads in the literature about subject itsiman
and the techniques employed to circumvent or overconi,c.e
In the author.sex perience the most the resistancepasrozicluile:
is that of accepting and utilizing
any other type of behavior, since properly used, they can 4'11
favor the development of hypnosis. This can be done i,
wording suggestions in such a fashion that•a positive or ,,
negative response, oran absence of response, are all defined'
as responsive behavior. For example, a resistive subjec
Who isnot receptit e 10 Suggestions Or hand kvitation cat
be told, "Shortly your right hitannida,yoprreitssmdaoYwhen, 0Y:-.)tilirnileaf:i
hand, will begin to lift up,
not move at all, but we will
wait to see just what
...The really important thing is not whether your
hh:u1Pi(Pel linit's
up or prows down or just remains still; rather, it is your
ability to sense fully whatever feelings may de velo i'
I) n your .
hand."
....The subjects whose resistance is manifested by failure
10 hand levitation can be given suggestions that their rigin
hami will levitate, their left hand will not. To resist sue-
cessfully,contrary behavior must be manifested. The result
is that the subjects find themseives responding to suges.
lion, but to their own satisfaction. (p. 1541 I Italics addedj
I now believe that a person's resistance to one panicular type of
trance experience comes from the fact that he or she is already in
another trance state. it is unnecessary to circumvent the patient's
niStAlKe to the trance he is already in because that particular trance
is the substance of his symptomatology.
In the above passage Erickson notes that "the most satisfactory
procedure (for overcoming resistance] is that of accepting and
utilizing the resistance as well as any other type of behavior, since
properly used, they can all favor the development of hypnosis." 
  

________________
s AU in the Playing • 55
„lye found that the most sa.ti.sf.actory app. roach to dealing with
lei isis to avoid the possibility of evoking it. I do this by aS king
retie- ;bent to duplicate or recreate the trance state that she is already
the
 to create her symptomatology. Instead of suggesting (either
d'irectly or indirectly) a hand levitation, an experience of time
distortion, oran amnesia for trance work, I allow the client complete
in producing the. trances that are most intrinsic to her
:
u'ionornYit is the client who selects which trance
fates of being. Iwnititimtwai experience. I .then merely observe and utilize. example, an Ericksonian approach typically might involve giving
or she
state
 he
ihe would forget to buy the potato chips; or perhaps negative
4 6 In the above case of the client with anorexia-bulirnia, for
Indirect suggestions for amnesia so that w. hen she went shopping.
iiallucination would .have.been suggested so that she could pass
right by the potato chips with. out noticing them. Either way, a Deep
Trance Phenomenon is being suggested or induced as a way of
blocking the occurrence of the symptom or interrupting its •pattern
of manifestation.
Ire ile approach I am describing. by contrast, the Deep Trance
Phenomenon that is already functioning at the core of the person's
svmoomatology is allowed to manifest to the fullest extent possible,
acid then it is worked with therapeutically. It. is that already occurring
trance state that is itself creating the symptom and interrupting the
person's experience of inner and outer resources available in the
proem moment.
once this trance state is taken off "automatic," the symptom
.tructure can begin to dissipate.
Erickson and Rossi believe that "habitual frames of reference"
must be depotentiated or bypassed in order to induceffaci I itate a
therapeutic trance experience (Erickson & Rossi, 1976):
Erickson believes that the purpose of clinical induction is
to focus attention inward and alter some of the ego's
habitual patterns of functioning. Because of the limitations
of a pat lent 's habitual frames of reference, his usual everyday
consciousness cannot cope with certain inner and/or outer
realities, and the patient recognizes he has a "problem."
Depotentiating a patient's usual everyday conscious sets is
thus a way of depotentiating facets of his personal limita-
tions (p. 448)
  
6                          
Craning Context:
You Are Not Your Problem
Tii, ltECIINNING STACIE t4 th-.:tdr! ittt MIN problem or
mi,4,,,, ■ , tviiiiivi, the person to thii4ePtiiiv (runt the prrActutrig
,„,/‹. We twietl 1%) tu%• ttw nrw and different clineriem-e svf 111s-
,- 0%, 0111v that N• t! at• nu." • :kw or ierfer rptlan Ow ‘ourk-r III distil! .-.
%lot ‘,111,.ti %s c air ‘A∎ tqically identified
I of el % .11tIric.. It 1 ..*•1nie into therapy 14-ith the complaint that 'I
%%Jilt mtiTtra4 %. hut I'm Afraid to get that close," believing that im,
tr..ii ,It 111111113c N t% 111 • %C1N c‘scru-v, then Its going to he mark
ktnixstksthk to resolve the rtot•lern Tlwrr s no "space" availahlt, in
4Ittch to Trywivr it! It Is Al 'Aka up .4•th dre tinOilentil it Jinni. 'al •
watt - inttitiWN-‘ttkit l'in-afritid-to-get • that ( lose'' its it 1113( 1% all I
arts Ftitther cluttering iity inleiltill %pace 41I t• .i wealth or past
.ivi►eih-e. (soiltenti that, iti rti■- view, rtiiitIlice my condition of
tear of intimacy taken together. Ive got a hermetically scitIrd
ptobletti with little tOont to mow.
If I learn to movc outsitke this misidentitication so tilitt I clui
vtru it, ohsetNC it, Ciescribe it. perhaps even write about it or paint
  
5$ • Three n Pe°Pk LM    
it—in short, if I am the knower of the prof lem,then any it iS not me. I am dcre. .ating a larger co.nbii
than it. Simply put.
•ciiliood that allows me to observe an isidentify at the        litext
The problem no longer takes up all my inner space; •it it. sort litnr
awareness that begiNurroti,,
begins to di min. nuns
by acontext of perception and a
vakxe of the problem.'Mint
"I‘There are many books about Eastern philosophy that ,
this vital principle of developing context. My fonhcomin`"t_uki
is a resource voirLt/441
Quantum Consciousness: The Discovery and Birth of (2 Dok,
Psychology-The Physics of Consciousness ,
approximately 100 different was of disidentifying in Orcroi
experience oneself as context Real transformation occurs wh:rtq
move from being the content, or story, of our lives to it:" we
Tieing
tht
context—or the space in which the life occurs.
You are not that which passes through your conseiousnesv
arc not your thoughts. your emotions, your ideas, memories. icartY°14
Deep Trance Phenomena arc the means by which
You shrink
self downto these limited states, byyou misidentify with ill:
belief that "I'm a loser" or "I'm not sman enough" or It,Can
&1St" Once you shrink your sense of sell down to beunnt
context 10
belief or that belief by identifying with it, you rind your't,t171
completely scolated inside the experience. There is no
provide rimpeetive or resources. Anything that you identify width
going In limit you by blocking out any other experience.
problem as a circle. The moment you identif‘
Imagine y('ui
Ywith the ►problem, in effect, you are sicpping
circle. Once enclosed by the circle Wit! problematic state), ail
resources. arc impeded; they cannot pass through Ike bound
tuy set
the circle. which Is compritied of the belief, "I am my problem." The
moment you disidentify with the circle, its boundary burn
permeable and other opt Ions and resources begin to no
11 uteri Went only 411k* key pi )iiit to this entire book it WOUld
that IOW are n0111'010 problem; you ale P1111 your true:, •e gates vouch
create your 4symptom. You are the realer and the knower or
perceiver cif your problem, You are the being who chose panicular
responses to handle particular types of experiences; and you me the
being who put those responhes on automatic.. That is the larger
context that therapy must awaken in any 'mon seeking ti solution
In a probIrm or a resolution of a symptom.
________________
Creating Context 59
for Erickgin, the concept of the unconscious mind played the
in therapeutic trance: it was the storehouse of resources
piVOtal 11)/e
past experiences that could be drawn upon to bring about
ingand resolution without the person's conscious awareness.
11'11,, approach, I find the concept of context much more useful
Ilau'cc it does not cornpanmentalize the mind. as Erickson's
in bc,fisec jouslunconscious split does. Furthermore, the concept of
%
tom empowers the individual by viewing the mind as an organic cnniiv that cost inuously creates states of being. Eric kson 'scon.sc iou ansc- jolts split, on the other hand, tends to idealize one pan (the oconscous)asthe savior while making the other pan (the conscious
cilemy or at least the annoying interloper.
There areis of•
yourself you choose to be conscious of, and
then we pans you choose not to "see"—all depending upon the
10.1sis anti turns of your past experiences in combination with your
oniensory-perceptual preferences and temperament. Potentially.
ou could choose to view any aspect of your pat experience. tuts
who being aware of context gives you: It empowers •you with the
us s' of the %CON of your own mind.
I alwa) s think of this in terms of an image. The mind is a library,
sildwhat you choose to expenence in the course Of a day is a product
ofthe being, behind the. transient states of consciousness,
asidin in the libraryretrieving particular sections. If you so
ctosc,you t an take the I Lishlight of your awareness into the history
wction, ei lilt' fe1.11i011Sillp section, or the. businew‘s section, or the
need. 'the point is, all the
mgcb°dYiVis°3111°;aillyds(iciictireicv,cht7tiiiat Lic.:■;ic(r)ny 171he viewed if you choose to
food your mental flashlight ort it.
When I talk about shrinking your focus of attention (Or
aa%.141cntifying) so that the "you behind the trancC "S
dr concept of perceiving the full conte NI of who you real I`•
c. int. 0. .magi to make it more
sic, I II:Atha! people often need somI r
tangible. For Inc, the image is one of an infinite night sky, alit with
thougniis of planets and thousautds of stars (Ow context). Into this
vaq dimension steps the limiting identification that "1 at the planet
Act' depression" (o• whatever) By shrinking your focus of
notion &►u to just one panicle in this immense expanse, and
inionang that' aIl you are, you create the very problem or
t■■• ‘11 h You feel overpowered. In fak.t, you arc the knower.
  
  
  
  
ncr phenomena are the vehicle of Your c
And your Deer Tr'iwith the planet called depression,
mg identification
the beginning stage of therapy involves
So,tortitcratite.
lion and helping the person obsery 13qitlit
out the glillicilfilf-1-11.tc:if gives the person an introductory Ilier 0.471
pr°cess. 13" -- hi . problem, for the perceiver is Separate friasit
scparating from! Li
The mOrnent an individual sic        "3tri
Ps into ‘Pq
whichperceirc( •
xpanding her own context and begi
cr mode• thetinny."int
dimnantic hcrc able to help a client a,
In order for ar
knower. the therapist (needless to say) needike%
tk ()Trance Phenomena. In other word., , Ioht
himself* as tlx
he Y°111111:15:ewtscil Ii–tcrt. the practice of self-obse, rvatioti, well tlil;:41
to bch•svt-ti-% own misidentifications, and familiar with the hew -
,I,cfa-Itcaftingidentities rather than identifying with the
:4%
pertiops :a1 cuunple from my own life will denionstra'614
point.I was in a very inte •
"sc
About a year and 3 luilf ftlittiothh
with 3 wow. I thought things were going along woruicrt .1p
whey). one night, I received It phone call froni her. She mid 411)
was over"!
With those three words I felt myself deluged with  anger
hurt, I'm halt an liNir I ranted :it'd raved. feeling desolated
abandointd. 'Men, slittlt occurred and I "remembered" 4111 i
about how such lillpiet/Caill stairs ate created. I got a very dr,,,
inctureof having gone to my mental lihntry and turned my Ila4iltli#1
(4 awareness onto the seoion called "Rejekwhercupoti
roievcdallthr mamma trsponses I had lean ted for that e s pci witce,
and fay identinal with them. Hy identifying with them, ur
iemeilling them in pwic►il time. Worse, tilt• problcmsort'
ninti•any cniagoi aim amplified: by going into the Itl cr.tl ti. ofl
mind awl retrieving flag is ',wieners labeled 'Ret
txpenctiking likiime of accumulated events rather than sirrtlsii
the one inure !limn! mount. Vast was welded to pic sent, watt tix
futon thrown in fair diatomic rlfect ("This i8 the story of my life
thettic ).
tar► MI a tangible sensation of expansion occUr its tht
riihiktt•litifwillintis WI away 1 lc( the body trsponses inn their ot"
criutse, realiik that pritticuliu senutiontt don't have to me*
________________
Creating Context
body expert_
 61
„rejection" or "humiliation" or "hurt." / am the one who gives
notions one larabcpliCirbanrcaott
hhuierg. .sano IdoibicasenrvepdaiaspitamtYions. I noticed
enflushing,
;ow
frouently accompanied sexual arousal. or excitement at it Celtics the waves of emotion I had been calling "rejection" also number of other pleasant experiences. I realized that
eame, or any
we hi.)0se the labels we give them. A rose by any other name is not
-we ties only choose our responses, hut perhaps more importantly,
a mse-
Witnessing
The moment you step outside of your problem to observe it, you
mute ;t larger context for it. Observing or witnessinR thin becomes
a key activity of therapy. I first came UCTOU the concept of
witnessing in 1;aNteni literature—in the Ithagavad-whcpc
Krishna is described as the "Eternal Witnesti" (1naneshvart. 1962)
Krishna give% counsel to poor Arjuna, who represent% all of ux
normal human% in life cnses. Knshria teaches Arjutia how ID
interact with his stateN of consciousness so that they do tk)t rule hint
it his tnie nature as witness. The entire
'(i1;1:16'ilitirleavIgoalvf:Allearound the cot wept Of the Eternal Witness
bila%Yht(71)::::7c1:;:tiltts of disentangling ourselves from worldly perils Indeed,
in Chapter 13 cunt led "Field and the Knower of the held: •lit.
Yoga of DistinctioiC K fistula defines the field As the body and
repeatedly empliasites the need to know the knower of the Held,
th.( mist: tlw body-lield is where experiences are experienced.
Vroin my Eastern perspective, it seemed to me that therapeutic
tiance %vas really a Western way of trying to establish a •itnessing
con•i►timicss. lit the hypnosis literature. the term dissociation in
used to drwribe trance processes whereby one part of the individual
tieps back and looks ;it°vend! situation. When dissociation is
used therapeutically in hypnotic work. it is most often dew ribed as
mcons ofsplitting of f of "devotentiating" the coticcious mind front
the iimonscious (Erickson, Rossi, N Rossi, 1976; Fmckson
Rossi, 1979). As mentioned pteviously, the conscious mind is
viewed as the interloper; the um siticious mind ati the bearer of all
the Intits
On one hand, I view dissociation as an 11111011111k defense
  
Creating C:ontext • 63  
ightexperiencc scncations in first, w hctIrr it is that one over there  
it is. you might
tur the one over herr. but as you notice which one
04())1icc that sensations are occurring there. and I don't know how 4c- notions move. But I do know that sensations can, wi II. :ind do --move from your right tuts or from your left hand. . . .up info your elbow Or ma cyb just to your wrist. Or perhaps just to the middle of vow forearm. And I don t know how you will feel a subtle 'olanth. a sensation, a tingling. orc xactly how you experience these different sensibilities. .But you can experience them.
-And as you experience it even more. it can move up the center
of your arni, over the top of your shoulder. into your neck. . You
turtic sensations and pulsations and vibrations and accumulations of rtiergy throughout your body dun you can. . ,Continue to enjoy."
If* presenting problem is, for example. -a feeling of .sadness mar the death of lily father." 1 would work in the same way to wand the I want of the bodily sensations. I would ask the client iota Inc where in her body she felt the sadness. She. might say. "I feel sad all over," I would ask. your earlobes? In your ankles? In your Nhouldc r blades'?" "No." she would answer. "I guess it's manly in nit p my CheSt_ "
rpose alibis expansion technique is not to deny what the
u 
PaiOn is currently experiencing but to ignite latent resources to facilitate the healthy processing of that experience.
Arinm:Reconnectinc the everience of the synsptom to the
entire "field" of the NOY automatically expantkr the
awareness, thus shifting the subjective experience of the
sYmfom.
STEP?: Espanding the Context to include the Self. Connecting both the symptom and the txxly back to a sense of "1" or ego self is the next step. In most cases. the symptom originally was dissociated from the body as a means of protecting the indiv ideal from experiencing something he or she was not willing to experience. Establishing a reconnection between symptom, body and self creates the context for an experience to be felt and procesed, which
tum ensures future integration and ego development. It is through
theexpansion and reconnection of the "1" back to the body which %hilts the body hack into alignment with the self.
Let's continue with the stomach ache example. To rtestablish
  
Crewing Context • 65            
idle trance work is to become integrated in life: Life is
scsislcivnetit"-w- lith eyes closed and a floating sensation of spareness; it
ifirect
inng theC°cOlinatcact of breathing and looking at me demands
t with our surrounding environment.
intimacy u,hich eventually—after all the defensive trance phe-
sena have popped up to protect it—constellates the person's
noni-- „ pow. everybody is co-existing: all the Deep Trance
phenomena as vvell as the "1." When the person entered the session.
hp womena were on automatic and the "I" was thorough ly
hes
crane
d 1.40Cixitat,sedtakoet 'anispoathceedr coxuatm.
"ple. A woman I worked with, who had
teen sexually abused as a child, was plagued by chronic back pain.
whenever she was in a sexual situation, her back and pelvic area
would respond with sensations of pain. Consequently, she did not
have sex-
In looking at how she created this traumatized response in
present time, I saw that it began by her focusing all her attention to
that arta---she was aware solely of the sensations in her back and
relv15. Secondly, she dissociated from the experience; her self or"1"
would go into trances of dissociation and amnesia which were the
Mme trance phenomena she had developed as a child to handle the
nperience of being made to have sex with her stepfather.
In reversing this response pattern, I began by expanding her
COMO of the sensation of her symptoms by using hypnotic sug-
*RS that put her in touch with all the other regions of her body
thatwere not in pain. Her body could then be experienced as an
organic whole—a physical organism with unity and integrity. Next,
1 worked with her to bring this expanded body context into rela-
tionship with her sense of self:
"And as you continue to feel the sensations in your pelvis and
tower back, I wonder how long it would take for the sensations to
move...move...move into your chest, arms, neck, and head. . .not
to mention your legs and feet."
These suggestion.sconnect the pelvic and lower back sensations
to the whole body so that the figure (the pelvis) is no longer
disconnected from the ground (the body).
Next I asked for an image that would reconnect her sense of self,
her "1-ness," to her body:
  
Cr•ming Context • 67      
and feeling and hearing Mount Vesuvius right inside your heart.**
Now that a resource has been evoked and vividly experienced
rhys;cany, in tilt body, I wait to expand its connection outside of
Ir image simultaneously inside me as well
the client to embrace, eventually, her problem area. First I suggest
itVicintsitidietithseherseallfseoTs:ies htis then extended to include any number of
*people, culminating with whomever the problem centers around:
"know, the checker at your market can also have
aA NInotr you
 itoVuestivlus in his heart. .and your dry cleaner. . .and
your hairdresser. Why shouldn't they? And the symbol of
Mount Vesuvius can also be held in Harold's heart. . .and
as you look at I !mold the next time you feel that old tension
beginning to build, you can feel your own Mount Vesuvius
in your heart, and you can see Harold's Mount Vesuvius in
his heart. .Your image, your beautiful, deep, connecting
symbol can be equally inside other people in your life, so
that you can be a part of the relationship with them, and at
the same times apart from it."
This concept of being a part of and a part from a relationship
simultaneously has been developed and taught by Gilligan (1987).
In Jungian terms. I am offering the client a specific way of
projecting positive qualities (qualities that feel good to her) that will
help interrupt her pattern of negative projections (experiencing the
other person as bearing unpleasant. harmful, or critical qualities). In
Zen terms, I am opening the door to a personal experience of unit y,
of oneness, that inevitably broadens a person's context and evokes
11 Wraith of coping resources.
Axiom: Connecting the self hack to the present life context
further shifts the ,symptom Atructure while emit:luting to
expand the persons inner awarenc NS.
.STEP 4: Expanding the Context to Include the Inner Witness.
The least addressed and yet most important tispect of therapeutic
mak, I believe, is the cultivation of the person's "inner knower":
that pal within which holds or contains all experiences--what I
have called the witness. Say, for example, that you are embroiled in
an internal conflict ofdesires: "I want a career," "I don't
  
  
  
'V••••11111) Mill HI Mum I,litg.wpp Anita' Jol it) laniMika              
Il►wt al' 'Jain' Is Antall! cp'1'1 1►%)•►11 1.111111 all Aiim uilli
pinom pm '4.44illop 6,11titit1 0111► (II:xivlitiktliti am Jowl
inr3.141 all •►n 1111111110111111! 111111 J/%4113411.11111114111(1111; i%•1111117Iillt411
Ina? HI )1111AS los vim%III Jul Hi41,41 AI
Aii11.,/01)0411 311 -v1 'Wm 411,E1111%
'..11i1I) 01111 AllAnati111111 MIN% 1111111 111►/1. It III1M 1111041
11.I;P:1411(1 Alit' 11 111,1 4(11,1;►111(1141(► j111 °MI 1110 1011►111
MI "I I►► We" It 1.11 i) 011111111VA 114)1111.11111        li1$110 tptiotontill(1S
.11)111HI 011010 mit •limit :DI' III it mow, fit 3)tt
-01.1 Alamo 'plum I '110iittel1i! l►itmi).) Alit AllutilipJA Ailivv...4
immism111.)11 1 J111 1J/011iIIM J/111111 pm! J41)."Insigit1p
lilt rill 'tifniti.mitcpp ototin pun olimmotoptirAYA
%, map Am it aatin1113111 1►f$1, almothoiLui
litittpind 11,1K wft11 111.H1 MI; 1JH11u1.4.11 I()
ifivorq
2131 3A1•311100 num, I.. pi spot Hamill 1.111111(► ) It %If s.)11711.tirll
'.)M Mika: :)1Itiot,l(ft) .►11► IAN 311►/0.(1 III 14/ lard
•••111► eli1111111 1.1►/n 01 iium t! pot; (.)1 it1IiM I pu•ipani htu 1111"A bils 111 Mum A111131 1 Illijo U1 111111m •11►1111:1111! .1■1111113111016 3111
tiapnpuoa at' ' puttqwnti Jati
litruu•ito u saquatiop pmf 3111 0) It,i1110,) (w1110/14 11 •-•11111111!Yoir'l
.1.1111111i1Val„ SI! mm13 aq1Ai luouall gividni1)11/ 311"
11)001►iia1)1111S1111 puu ►2itusaruj &moo) tin 1)113 '11(1:1(1:)
tonal 0111 11! voutilitlioi I 31t1 A.)111 31Intmoti itiJcp pin! 1•11(11/.1.X(1023,41134
s'31:7134010 pup %mamma °trawl (nu 'minis Jill !IP 1"1)
.tuolportir
guyiem pup itasatioNupilibut:mop si 44111,
ill clomp 01 II
Janino.) rueliamS-
uophas siftmitttRaqisultuailt all, Jo /NM Ailnuq111311/"V
S1101) ELM til bkilplaS
...1t. DNS liana aniasqo twa imp St01,111m ;no Jo st1811`)11/P14. dip
'Supti iraiSolotpAsdsariut!3Jo111-11*5
jo) atio sem alnaia 0) )a 513 sum luatialoqub(s vit.) NI
.Ailunba army aaualiacixa op' '11!M ..111r3i
■•
1/113XMOLI1 ()I a:mu s.1t puv •JviunoattonoA lump% aldo('
lottio tom,. .11u iilinoity • puttoir %ion° puu • • •noS ilfit1011/1 JO
69 • /%?71400 NtIUMIA )
  
  
  
  
e        h his intention and his counter-intent.
Ithrl:%svpacieljegilflo; the %crazy Rather then pretend to ,tict ti,..
y. espousing the virtues of ° '._rnt lc
drug inien:onutlid°nhatvce re. Pspondleid, :Tuck you marl panhst"lenc
which he
, rnrused oncm ing ot stde,s of the d 
b h .' "'' n°18%,
quit —1 "I`'simply a
fig.
hence to co-exist.
Homer (l98) has described intention as being (vie hi
we
int or a being has; everything springs from intention... ,64
  
Buddhist po'
f view. intention is recognized as pr
movement or thought, and is likened to an impulse. In vi
meditation, one can begin to observe or witness intention
sPN
Prte?,
body movements or verbal interactions.
Erickson, in his inimitably mischievous way, tells a sip_
humorously expresses his view of intention (Rossi & Ryan7,„,-4
Fie was standing in a formal queue (with Margaret mead)        '
a hostess for the lovely dinner he had enjoyed. He watched a(:'
guests preceding him said all the right things in all the riot
and then he decided to conduct his own "field experiment" otN,‘
spot: When his turn came, he ever so courteously, so -44
thanked the hostess for the lovely dinner of horses' tail, and
he have the recipe? Oh, certainly, she replied, she would be ire
happy to give him that recipe! For Erickson. the actual worth,:
spoke were never as important as the meaning and intent he ascli;
to them.
The role of intention in therapy is preeminent. Only wit.
intentions as well as counter-intentions arc acknowledged canlje.
therapist and client become mutually aligned in a coop*
  
therapeutic venture. Setting the intention creates the contest 111-
change—and no change can occur without a space firm kip
cleared for it.
If l, as the therapist, acknowledge any counter-intentions I;.•
experiencing in relation to the client, I am going to have a freelki
ofmy associations and responses. If I block those parts of myte
i'm not going to have a free flow, and I will he teaching the cle
that those blocked parts are unacceptabIe.
Let's say I begin to feel angry in a session, If I resist that arm
I will also give an unconscious message to my client that says:11
not okay to bean gry. If I resist my feeling of stuckness about lAtis
________________
emitting Context • 71
n next. then I'm telling my client, in effect, that he should resist
th'ic own feeling of stuckncss of his life. That is why I feel safe
ac-knowiedeing any thought, feeling, association, ernotion. or
e-intention that pops up in me; to do otherwise would only
Countr 
ntroduccd to the concept of
ncencvdirantomiecnti
expanding his or her own inner context, so does the therapist. I need
cPelitientitc
how to allow all of my perceptions and responses without
pollulutestthase drape
to learn
detailvalo
myself as them.
Moving Beyond an Identity
as "Therapist"
Being a therapist is as much (if not more) about my own growth
as
sense it is about my clients'. We are present as equals. Unfortunately.
a        of equality is not generally taught in supervision. Rather, we
•
are encouraged and even pressured into rigid role definitions that
are supposed to protect us while somehow helping our clients.
Pioneer family therapist Carl Whitaker (1989; Whitaker &
alone,1987) first attempted to dispel this polarity by introducing
Mtheconcept of "co-transference" (as opposed to the traditional dyad,
transfcrenceicountertransfcrence). His message was, We're all in
this together, we all project on each other, we all try to hide, we all
try to manipulate, we arc all trying to grow. Now in his mid-
seventies, Whitaker uses his lecturing circuit to "go crazy as the
patient" for the audience, Whitaker's best times occur when he fully
allows himself to "share his own craziness."
Perhaps the most profound way fora person earning a living as
a therapist to expand his or her inner context is to integrate and own
the understanding that there is no difference between the therapist
and the client. Ina training group in which I was discussing this idea
I was asked,"Then, how do you know who's the therapist and who's
the client?"
My answer: "The person who gets paid is the therapist."
That drew laughs, but I really did not intend it to be a humorous
communication. On the contrary, 1 was quite serious. The invisible
but potent barrier separating therapist from client is one of the
largest obstacles to personal growth any therapist will encounter.
  
  
  
  
  
  
Creating Context 73
nit "buy into" this role, he or she is usually labeled resistant.
ropists often attempt to fit the client into their model without
who they are beyond the roles and the symptoms.
ifjeodivgeesivnanegrid
challenge me, then you will probably be
ou as the client don t play by these unspoken
ydisagree with me, or tell me you see things very
idiaibeffeireedn,t4litY's°isiteanyte'itlo°rPwelloirsYe. Similarly, if 1 as the therapist refuse to
accommodate the identity you expect me to manifest, you may label
me •Igint zirntpeakteennt;:rawloonrgset.
ime to learn to be—and that includes
allowing the experience of not-knowing. When I feel stuck in a
session and don't know how to proceed or even what to say, I say
so. I focus on the sensations of not knowing and•
continue to breathe
with it. In Erickson's terms, I utilize it—but it has nowpbericnocmipeleas
lifestyle rather than just a technique. Erickson 's utilization 
coincide beautifully with Eastern concepts of meditation: do not
discard, dissociate from, or resist anything. Observe. .  
embrace.
Learning to Spot Your Own
Deep Trance Phenomena
Unlessyou can observe and identify your own deep trances,
there is no way you will be able to spot them in clients. In searching
for a way to learn how to do this with myself, I made use of a
meditation-like environment with which I was already quite famil-
iar as a way of focusing my attention on my own Deep Trance
Phenomena. I would sit quietly for a period of time each day,
observe the thoughts and feelings that arose and subsided, and begin
10 label them in terms of trance states.
For instance, watching m y thoughts move into concerns about
fart events meant I was ex perienc ing pseudo-orientation in time;
!lit'. emergence olangry feelings from the past usually meant was
apregressing; and the sensation of keling there was not enough
time for me indicateddistortion. I would notice when my
physical vtivironment began In fade visuaily and register that as
negative hal lucinat ion; 1 would !lot ice which pans of y body were
p4rielisel vniiaLsensation and which were disconnected and dissoc iated.
  
  
74 • Tfivico per' Lit    
I carefully structured my initial !earnings by proccee
slow and methodical fashion made possible by the mediuu:g in a
ironment I and for myself.. Once I felt some facility n'ilke
theciecontroiledorcumstances, I moved my awarelleSS Ault rkier
mote ehaOtie world_ 1 began catching myse If in various trance tile,
both alone and while interacting, and silt3lei
throughout the day.
tracked them I spotted my trances, as it were, and noticed defil)Pil'ip
patterns and preferences. My favorite Deep Trance Plienomeninh:
which I could fall into almost any time, was negative hallocinal."'
whenever a situation or person would begin to irritate me, w
  
1114
°
simply stop seeing. Your preference might be dissociation, co16
regression—it all depends on your_
PerSonal Past sion.orage-P hit
and what worked best in your family.
first, as with any learning process, there is a certain sense
Al 
awkward effort and concentration required to begin perceiving 47
Deep Trance Phenomena in yourself and your clients
identifying
remember watching a client and thinking laboriously: 'lie 1063
like he's staring to space out—yale,is-hoa—hliet'hsadt itsIslucx:tiabetingne.
there is a light film over his erc
hallucination. _he's worrying about a business meeting two wee*
aµ-ay--that's pseudo-orientation in time." Within five mtnutesd
intense observation, I was exhausted.
  
It is certainly possible to get compulsive in the learning pion
and end up feeling as if you are tramping around in a marshbojd  
confusion. If you feel that confusion coming over you, sit bet,
breathe deeply, and just notice what the client is giving yok ya
don't have to think-, you don't have to figure it out. Just noticewk
the client is giving you.
The primary purpose of this book revolves around leamingh3
to identify and work with Deep Trance Phenomena: first, 1 $
therapist, to be able to work with your clients by noticing all
altering their trances; secondly and more importantly is to be atf
to spot and alter your own trances. Ironically, accomplishinsic
first purpose is contingent upon first accomplishing the secool
In my psychotherapy training programs, therapists rei1le.1
lament: I can't see the subject's agc regression, 1 !reel powerlds'-
"1 can't see the negative hailucinati on"; or "I can't understand0
to do this. . .I'm Lonfused." Each titne my 1111SWer is CSSelltiallyt1/4
same: You cannot spot someone else's tresnees ttntil you call
  
  

76 • Trances People Litt
	Exercise No. 3
	  

	iStep I Sit or lie down in a comfortable position.
Step Begin to watch your mind closely, noticing how
throwing up ideas, thoughts, pictures. and internal dialogueltskeeP
Step 3: Detach yourself and simply observe the cornin;
goings of the ideas, thoughts, pictures, and internal dialogii;s,
Step 4.. Begin to label each thought or picture or idea as a
Trance Phenomenon. Forexarnple, ex ample, if your mind is going back 7
past, label it age regression. If your mind is going into the fli°111't
label it pseudo-orientation in time. When you feel spacey. 6L7
dissociation. If you get dreamy, label it hypnotic dreaming. Trid':
Phenomena out of the diffusive mass of trance states.
forth. In this way you begin to differentiate specificcreaaro
Step 5: Knowingly, consciously, intentionally Decete or pi:
duce the Deep Trance Phenomenon that is alre.ady occurring. pt
example. let's say you hear an internal voice that says,
hard." Label it posthypnotic suggestion. Now intentionally crei,
picture from the past "pops up" (age regression), ince
the voice saying, "Life is hard" several times. Then Imact
several copies of the picture, look at them, and then let them go.:1
you feel your body going numb (sensory distortion), knowin6
create the numbness several times. If you notice your mind:,
beginning to fantasize (hypnotic dreaming), consciously re-are
that experience several times.
Ultimately, these exercises will produce several effects:
1.     You will be able to spot your own trances.
2. You will notice other people's trances.
3. You will begin to identify yourself as the observer l•'
witness of the comings and goings of different deep trra    
states.
   4. You will begin to experience that you are the crezwr  
these trance phenomena and, consequently, beyond Ur:
effects.  
The ultimate outcome of these three exercises is an encomilli
!g understanding that you are not your trance phenomena: that.'''.
	  

  
  
  
  
  
  
WTHER we care to admit it or not, most of us experience
spurts of age regression on a fairly frequent basis. If only for 30
seconds after being reprimanded by a boss, spouse, or friend, we all
know how it feels to cascade back in time psychologically and
emotionally. The young wife who curls up on her husband's lap to
entice him into buying her a new dress is the same little girl who first
Learned to crawl onto Daddy's lap and "be cute" in order to get what
she wanted. Age regression grants the little girl of yesteryear the
automatic response of using what worked for her in the past in
present time.
The problem is that the adult in present time automatically and
unknowingly age regresses to get what she wants. Often, she feels
powerless and resents the lack of respect she receives from her
partner. She might feel misunderstood, unseen, and even alienated.
All these psychoemotional states are glued together by an unknowing
adult utilizing age regression.
T Age regression is probably the most widely experienced Deep
ranee Phenomenon and almost always a contributor in the present-
ing  problem or symptom. Erickson (1980) defined age regression as
"the tendency On thepart of the personality to revert to some method
or fonn of expression belonging to an earlier phase ofpersonality
  

  
80 • T1(111Ce3 People Lite  
development" (p. 104)• I see it more as the interpolation
time-frozen experience over present reality whereby the
f a
quite close to this •view in describing how mental experience present time. Actuall
cannot adequately
"meta s" gels
induced that are unrelated to immediate reality but are, so f: can be
be determined, actual reactivation of mental states pr:r.as
experienced and uninfluenced by mental patterns acquired 1°11sly
Erickson tended to focus on dramatic examplesposyfcahgoeirseubgreses:
quent to the original experiences" (p. 105).
dysfunction. I have become amazed at how
sion underlying usually severe episodes of
Pervasive e age re°gical
soon is in symptomatology
• general. It seems to be the gins.
common "ingredient" in the symptom "cake "----that is, the most
frequent Deep Trance Phenomenon in the cluster of pheno:sta
comprising problems and symptoms. Indeed, you can even Di.n,
suppose the presence of regression in any symptom, for sucV
symptom must have a time frozen quality to it that pennits
repetition.
Being stuck in a past "place" creates the guidelines for current
interpersonal limitations. Age regression creates developmental
gaps that interrupt, impede, and/or undermine adult functioning.
As with all Deep Trance Phenomena, age regression wac
originally created as a result of interpersonal interactions which, for
whatever reasons, the child was not able to integrate. In order 'lotto
integrate an experience—in essence, to resist it—the child freezei
his body by tightening his muscles and holding his breath. This
physiological pattern may then become the somatic basis for an
automatic response an intrapersonal self-to-self trance that en-
dures for decades to come.
For example, Dad has a terrible habit of telling Mikie that he'll
never make it—that he'll be as much a failure as his father is.
Statements to that effect become part of Mikie's daily psychologi-
cal menu, and he learns to deflect them by freezing his body and
holding his breath.
The formation of hypnotic identities and oppositional identities
is discussed in detail in Chapters 10 and 19. For now, it is enough
to say that Mikie begins to fuse with the experience called
failure-just-like-Dad," and this fusion is held together in a trance
identity that defines how he views himself. lie also begins to form
  

________________
Age Regression • 81
counter-identity of "I-can-do-anything-I-set-my-m and-on-doing."
Out utofthe counter-identity: Mikie is driven,t,o achieve. By age eight
he is already being called a `super-achiever by age 15. he's getting
straight A's and holding down two part-time jobs; by age 21 he's
Pas i ng his bar exams; by age 25 he s a junior partner in a
cl nwa tin fngup. Aartndofsothoisn.
trance dynamics that make it possible. There are two parts to this
presThtigeiofuass
story is the invisible web of deep
web. In the first part. much of the "steam" for Michael-the-Adult's
successful law career is coming from the "solution" Little Mikie
created in response to his own discomfort and psychological pain.
Since that solution (a trance identity called "I-can-do-anything-I-
sei_mymind-on-doing") was created during childhood, it requires
an ongoing age-regressed state to maintain it. What that means is,
Little Mikie is always present within Michael-the-Adult as a needy
little child running around trying to prove himself worthy.
In part two of the web, Michael-the-Adult unwittingly holds in
his consciousness the painful trance identity called "I'm-a-failure-
just-like-Dad" he originally created as a child. I le literally fuses
with or becomes Dad again and again. He has to keep his mental
picture of failure present in his mind in order to promise himself that
he' 11 never be like that! The ultimate double bind is that his
continued achievement as Michael-the-Adult is contingent upon
the promptings of Little Mikie's "I'm-a-failure" identity.
In issues of sexual abuse, more often than not the child fuses
with the perpetrator. At some level the child becomes and holds the
perpetrator in his consciousness while simultaneously holding the
victim consciousness. This explains the psychodynamics of why
victims of sexual abuse become perpetrators in later life.
Let's take a closer look at how something that is born out of an
interpersonal dynamic can function for long periods of time as an
intrapersonal force.
Think back to the last t i me you lost your temper with someone.
Bring the picture up the forefront of your awareness, and imagine
a slow-motion special effect as you watch the incident unfold in
your mind's eye. At first, you are dealing interpersonally with the
other person; there is a sense of yourself, and a clear sense of other.
As the anger escalates, however, the trance lines blur considerably,
  
82 • Trances People Live    
and
• you watch really closely, you can see the interpers
dissipate into a purely intrapsychic one. It is no longer :;:`trance
other person in a self-to-other anger trance; it has beeand and the
self trance in which you are recreating an experience a self.to.
childhood. Your focus shrinks even further as you glide
Your
present time (a 1991        or
particular type of intrapersonal trance you move into will • it
trance) into the past (a a..1s95a5Chbil'd'"eciocupet
trance) -11.
oat he altered state of consciousness you created
to defend
  
yourself.
Another way to understand this is that as a four-ve
-ar-old ch-i
say, a violation occurs triggering anger; at age seven, „, I d,
violation with more repressed anger, at age 12, the same. when
age 40 the adult is violated, the anger experienced is Way °len al
Pto the current trigger. Why? Because the event at a:1411°(
catalyzes all earlier violations. This is age regressed anger wheTCbti
the adult "retrieves" the age-regressed child and re-ex
ces itin
present time—instantaneously, out of time.
Understanding that both intra- and interpersonal dynamics ca
exist in any individual bridges a longstanding dispute in the field of
psychotherapy in which one school seeks to prove that all interaction,
are context-dependent (the family therapists), while another pls.
sionately asserts that the individual is the only source of lashchange (depth psychotherapists). Another way of integrating the
intrapersonal with the interpersonal is to understand that individuals
create trances in response to interpersonal contexts, which they then
internalize as a self-to-self trance. In other words, they are having
an interpersonal interaction in an intrapersonal context.
I have found that pathology as well as health is a product of the
combination of both intrapsychic processes and interpersonal dy
namics. Family therapists tend to lose sight of the fact that each
person has an internal world which he or she recreates in present
time. Depth psychotherapists tend to minimize the pivotal role
played by all "significant others" in a child's life; they also mini•
mize the reality that behavior can change by changing the
present-time context or interactions. Here we art going to make use
of both sides of the coin and begin to realize in the process how little
difference there is between what we encapsulate as "inner" and
  
what we assign to "outer."  
  
  
,, ov oriented Persona lot."
growing
  
'Ii.'ch°,1°Igi‘ti41 • dia, •some of us at the monastery would chuckle
      * wgoruold say., "I'm
\:.F:cenntei 4:td,,,,4-,;:i:lintbeersuf:ropina nsimiiiar.,iy seweinkgin4frieewndosu,ldwshaoy ,
wrellre le experience of a traumatic life
"god,
;:inaboinninsut ;elan:win_ smtbucehsatimieeyi ; only
its label or frame is changed.
new asso-
:tur:- rem i tinn by contrast, you create completely
in reassoc.a., by.
iulttple meanings and interrupt the
The stimulus called "men" no longer
oniuons that carry n
        las.response prototype.,
you have created new
hogs the response called "fear" because y
tr- aii and new associations. By creating these new associations,
ti):
ern can no longer occur one-on-one; you have already
broadened it to one". . .And you can notice that Uncle
Henry actually has two eyes.. .and a mouth...and two cheeks. . .and
3nosc...not to mention a forehead. . •a chin. . .and two temgepsleins.ia'
Retrieving Resources. Whenever age regression emerges
client, you can use it to retrieve inner resources. Indeed, once the
filed nature of the Deep Trance Phenomenon of age regression is
,,,iteitd via reassociation, developmental resources long suppressed
dusually "float" to surface. These resources are often comprised
      * •• se cherished but squashed childhood qualities of openness,
lutnexability. and the free expression of emotion.
!worked with a client who complained that he was unable to be
intimate. Every time he entered a relationship with
erified after only a few mu
awwoman, it
months with a frustrated lament ament from his
poet to the effect of, "You're completely invulnerable!WII ?nen' I
touch you. You're walled off, in a safe and distant zone."
asked him to recreate that state of invulnerability while breathing
and looking at me, he gradually age-regressed in hisspeech and
began acting out what appeared to be a scene from his childhood . in
this re-creation, he was a child of three, trying to crawl onto his
mother's lap and cuddle. She kept telling him to get away and leave
It ralone. This type of incident was repeated often enough that his
Tiponse to it become automatic. To defend against his mother's
rebuff, he "shut down," became hard and cold, walling himself off
from experiencing this event with his mother. What is crucial to
understand is that if he lets go of the wall in
experience the pain of rejection which the wall is defending him
against feeling•present time, he will
  
  
86 • Trances People Live      
Decades later, this man is still bringing If  
each and every encounter he has with women's moth
eachwith;
confronted with the possibility of an emo.t        i`-ach t i
change, he age-regresses into his walled-off al°11—bi,Y,;intinle'wh,t71
muscles, holding his breath, and freezing u area"ghten4-teR
trance has been enacted and re-enacted hand(i)sc agelwe 111-
same, astounding precision. That is whs of tirneR gre* SSeti
y once this Dan. - with ho
phenomenon is altered (via reassociation•or di ff a --- ‘letliar tratt:
we'll discuss later), those developmental resoureren"ati"I
pressed by the child's defensive trance will beco ces that were 1"
adult in present time.availabi sul)*
c to the
Tapping on the door of the fixed trance sets in mo -
no-lose therapeutic process, because sooner or late:Iona faii.safe,
to encounter resources--provided you know how' Y:uuiltreietougd:Ogf
them. Any resisted experience is a potential resourcet° reignizev;
Deep Trance Phenomena are the "guardians" of a
resisted experiences, they are a veritable storehouse of
Any experience can be a resource.resources.    
I have been challenged on this point. Everything is a resource 
comes the incredulous question. In my experience, the anis  
yes. Anger is a resource, depression is a resource, not knowsiwer
resource, even "blah-ness" is a resource. I had a client who asd
described them, "very zippity-do-dah"—always up, al
  
had never been allowed "to just be blab." Her parents ways en::
s were, as she
gized and emoting about something. As an adult, she had a problem
with chronic, mild depression—she seemed forever stuck in (age
regressed to) the dreaded blah feeling. She needed to fully experi.
ence the forbidden state free of judgement, solely from the position
of the witness. For her as an adult, the experience of feeling blab
willtoutjudgment was wonderful. Instead of it turning into a
lingering depression, she experienced her blab-ness as a time just
for herself when she had complete permission to just be. It is a grand
paradox: as long as you evaluate blaii-ness as being something bad
you shouldn't experience, you 're constantly going to resist it—
which, in turn, keeps the blah-ness ever-present.
Another case example that illustrates the axiom that everything
is a resource involved a man for whom the, response of "I don't
   bsessed with
b  rnlis an wao
know"becamealieratingexpeiem 
a sensation of pain in his righi teste, for which no organic cause had
  
Age Regression • 89            
rces to deal with the trauma; I want the client to bring these
°tot' a with her when she re-encounters that terrible time.
°The second benefit of this particular approach to reliving
raufna is that the client takes the therapist with her. The directive,
helps the client take the present (embodied
.eilinoci3treheficatilletie,ecraahndPanisre) swktiahtihne iclloeen';:text in which it is re-experienced. Now she
back to the time of the trauma—which, in
tow° strong foundations of resources with which to re-experience
0x:trauma: the foundation of accumulated resources forged over a
and the foundation of present reality, with all its
ilictime ofc0Ping;
divert here for a moment to elaborate a technique I
dciargveelirotcpcioninciteefxodiffusing
transference and projection when dealing
pailiallar, with molestation traumas. As a male therapist working'
with women reliving such traumas, I realized that the potential for
my being viewed as the perpetrator at some point or other in the
trance process was quite high. To deflect that development, I would
direct the client to select a particular feature about me that would be
associated with a clear recognition of who 1 was and when it was.
For example:
I'd like you to look at me now and pick out something
it might be my beard, it might be my glasses, it might be the
rings on my fingers. And every time you look at that, you
will know that my name is Stephen and it is 1989."
Whenever the client's expressions began to indicate fusion with
mem the perpetrator, I would say, "And as you continue to look at
my glasses (or wherever), you know that I am Stephen, and that it
Ls 1989... And what is your experience like right now?" To return
to the skin-graft metaphor, the therapist together with the client's
inner resources represent the graft of healthy tissue being repositioned
overt) e traumatized areas of the psyche. You have to keep the graft
in position—you have to keep the client in present time in order
for deep healing to occur.
Treatment of A,ge Regression
Rather than adhering to a strict (and often arbitrary) division
between therapist and client,' have chosen to tread both arenas. The
  
90 • Trances !Topic um    
underlying assumption is that there isn't really
difference between a person being called "them Trly fun
Mt" and a Nal
being called "client." Therefore, a.
theraPeuttc technoi        persotl
for use by the individual can be meaningful for both '38Y getIN
In each of the chapters dealing with specif .
lc beeh ,
Phenomena, a concluding section on Treatment Will ,, Itane,,
gestions for the individual to use in working within        rr°vide s *
On hiS orb 11g4
  
  
  
trances, or with others' trances.      
Trance
First, begin to learn to identify when you are sli2 into
age-regressed state in your daily life. Perhaps you ParPeinh'„-„-7°
disagreement with your spouse and you feel a sense of bein mg a
control coming over you; perhaps you have been reprimangodut.of.
the job and you are gripped with the impulse to throw a ed on
tantrum. Or perhaps it is something far more subtle: like, du efliPer
you find yourself using varaiot teivrinsetrype:
interaction with a colleague, y
of manipulative behaviors to win his/her favor. Wh3
,arbesghadesin
particular outer circumstances, and whatever the particular
and shapes of your individual age regression experienceto
witness when it occurs.
      1. If possible, take some time out for yourself. If you are at
work, take your break in a quiet area where, ideally, you can lie
down. Let yourself go deeply into the sensations you are experienc-
ing, and as you are doing so, witness them. The simple act of
witnessing expands the experience, expands you, for you are no
longer totally identified with it; part of you is observing. The
circumference of your self has expanded to incorporate the activity
of witnessing.
      2. Now you are in two simultaneous states: the age-regressed
state of the pouting child (or whatever), and the state of Or
observing witness. Notice, next, if there are any resources, feeling,
thoughts. or actions that might be of help to the part of you that
age-regressed. For example, perhaps it would help to give title age-
regressed part certain messages or resources. Talk to it, like you
would talk to a living child, telling it what it needs to hear..
      3. Now allow all these new resources to merge and join wig Age Regression • 91
n„vressed part so that they become tin organic whole. As
        itg Jr'vrited—as you embrace the child, merge with the
di:I—you are bringing your age-regressed inner
ch:'1"1°111)J14Nbectobeliwt:c°11y1:cliolueisrillechineuetrrecth:rnnet *behavior is no longer context-independent.
4, 3 Sc.,' •
nct vou have time-traveled: You have brought the age-
'd parts of your self into the context of the present moment,
olose
yourattention is no longer narrowed and fixated in the trance state
A- can now expand and respond fully.
Suggestion Revisioning Trauma
Erickson 's ingenious case of the "February Man" (Erickson &
Rossi, 1989) contains the prototype for this approach to healing
ram As the February Man, Erickson "visited" his client during
octal age-regressed sessions, during which her various traumas
re.experienced in the context of the added wisdom, insight,
3rA support provided by this figure of the wise old man. In the
ach described below, the client recreates several states of
app 
ix mg that now co-exist in •relation to the trauma. Each state of being
vises e n tin ly within the client: the child prior to the trauma (if the
tranaoccurred when the chi Id was 6, then this child is 5), the child
in the =ma, the adult, and the person who has successfully
rtsolveti the trauma in present time (via pseudo-orientation in time).
know have four different states of being:
        Stale 1:The child prior to the trauma
        State If:The child in the trauma
State III: The adult in present time
State IV: The adult who has used the Deep Trance Phenom-
enon of pseudo-orientation in time to resolve the
trauma.
There is an obvious benefit to this particular skint, which is that
Ireduces if not eliminates the tendency of the client toproject his/
*strengths and resources onto the therapist. Erickson's February
Man appmach is more open to such projection—especially when
gltinpted by those of us less skilled clinically than Erickson.
The steps to this approach are as follows:
(1)See the childprior to the traumatic event.
(2)See the childas an older person with the situation handled
or resolved.
  
.7 • Trances People Live
  
(3) slave the ohfrr person in Step 2 join the chi, , .  
look into future events, knowing that they will4 in Step!
person gives suggestk1
His taat counter those tnat were ir - oldet
, t'veur, Tho to
trauma. (For •example, in a molest•case, the old .' tin (if 11
cr verso        le
01i,00nielthechild \vitlitheitljunctions,"All wen atvii•I liketi ," fitigh
can trust a lot of men, yon just can't trust tills ( Me  . .1, "8...y,t
certain types 01 meth but feel free. to tee' ,,;11-,,. „,,,,-%Iuki
•t: earpq
w"n the do;
ones. . .")
  
(m Now the older person mid the NSW Plan what to d
event unfolds.
con\ider what might tx. helpful to remember 0
ow upcoming truuma dial is about to occur. Il'Iouritetexrisitiu:ipi:le::1,8iiv:
      5. After the new course of action is determined, have the ti
parts merge: the child prior to the trauma, vulnerable and wit7
resources. . .mcrgcs with the older person who has handled 41
trauma...which merges with the child who now re-eyerienrrtav
resources of the adult in present tine. trauma with the added support and he A•1/ ; loifiraelel ctioteal(ei sceeeu .aasirtte . yd
experience being with the new resources, •ideas, plans, and so forth
      6. Now bring all parts into present time to experience integr,itichl
and resolution.
For example, a child is molested at age 6. The adult comes t(1
therapy at age 26 around this issue.
Step 1:Have the 26-year-old go into the future to3pIxt  
where the trauma is handled.
Step II:Have the 26-year-old go to a place prior to tit
occurrence of the trauma.
Step Ill:Bring together the person in Step I with the pens
in Step H and look forward to the event that haw
happened, knowing that it will happen.
Step IV:Have the age-progressed person give advice
how to handle the upcoming trauma.