Goal of fascination is to bring the subject in a passive consciousness. For doing it we act on the eye as a primary tool.
When engaged in our thinking and evaluating what is perceived, that is the functioning of mind... the arising of the the make-believe world of labels and opinions.  That is an unnecessary activity added to the basic condition of just being...just observing.

Fascination gets this results using many elements connected to eyes accomodation.

Accomodation
Accommodation to natural vistas depends in a complicated way on:
the dark focus of the individual,
the retinal locus
the spatial frequency of visible texture,
the sharpness of focus needed for the discrimination of object identity, for example, reading a sign.

In fascination we observe:
- Dark Focus position will be influenced by several conditions, and become nearer the more the individual is excited
- Retinal Locus is better on the left on the individual, as vision is different from left to right
- when sharpness of focus is increased results are faster 


ALTERATION IN SENSORY PERCEPTIONS - THE "BIG FACE"
The apparent size of an object changes with shifts in the distance to which the eye is accommodated. This phenomenon happens in fascination, where the face of the operator become big and can even be a sign of entering a specific state as it is physiological as well psychological as it touches what we call "dimension" of an object, that is also a psychological construction. For exemple, a six floors building occupies on the retina the same space as an object near, yet we are able to judge its size, even with an eye closed. There is also a physiological correlate: the more distant the individual' s dark focus, the greater his or her tendency to focus beyond an acuity target and to maximize apparent size. This will create a greater discrimination of detail. In fact judgnents of apparent size are highly correlated with visual accommodation distance, and in aviation it has been proved that the difficulty of detecting airplanes on stationary collision courses is greatly aggravated when focus is trapped by structure close to the eyes.

While alteration in sensory perceptions has something in common with the jargon of ericksonian hypnosis there are also a list of phenomena that don't pertain to ericksonian hypnosis

ENTERING THE SPACE OF "NOTHING": THE MANDELBAUM EFFECT
Accommodation is the physiological process by which the eye brings objects at different distances into focus.
The Mandelbaum effect refers to an inadvertent accommodation response to an intervening surface (e.g. the hand) while attempting to focus a distant object of interest (the operator). It was first scientifically codified by Mandelbaum in 1960 in relation to something observed during pilots flights.
The use of the hand in fascination can be explained with factors related to the Mandelbaum effect, i.e. the tendency of the eye to approach "resting"accommodation.
The resting point of accomodation is also called the "dark focus" as it is tha distance where the eyes acommodate as they look in the dark. We note that there are disciplines, as the "dzogchen", that teach "sky gazing". Sky gazing will result in the eyes accomodating to the space of nothing and in this space we can experience non duality.
Also when visibility is poor, the eye tends to relax and focus on its best distance, technically known as "empty field" or "dark focus". This distance is usually just under one meter (one yard), but varies considerably among people. The tendency is aggravated by objects close to the eye, drawing focus closer.
Since resting accommodation is approximately one metre objects the operator, in the case he will move himself farther he will be also out of focus. 
We should note that the Mandelbaum Effect is not refractive error in the usual sense. It is instead something happening inside the brain: it is not a structural characteristic of the eyes, but the Effect arises from normal variations of perception in the brain. When there is spatial disorientation, it is posited some people are severely affected by the effect, some mildly, and some not at all.
Curiosity: The effect is well known in aviation where dirty glass can aggravate the effect, potentially causing a pilot or driver to miss seeing an obstacle or hazard, and therefore it is a strong safety argument for keeping windows clean.

SPEAKING FROM OUTSIDE THE SUBJECT'S MICROCOSM - Movement and increasing of the Mandelbaum Effect
The eye is lazy and resists the pull of a distant stimulus , preferring to rest at a relatively short focal distance as it does in the dark or when looking at the sky. As the operator will move farther he will move outside this point and his voice will seem to arrive from a different location

ENTERING THE SUBJECT MICROCOSM
This is done with a fast moving toward the subject. Directing the two eyes on a point demands an expreme convergence of the ocular axes and a strnous accomodation. The proximity of the point being to great, the accomodation, though contracted, is insufficient, in general to allow a clear vision. As for the surroundings objects their images form only the peripheral part of the retina, since the central part is focused. The peripherical sensations on the retina are weaker than the sensations at the centre. In these conditions the subject makes himself almost blind to the external world and the more we are near, the more the process is accentuated.

FIXATION OF ATTENTION and Blurring
As we walk, drive a car , or fly low over the terrain , our accommodation is determined largely by Gibson's (1950)
well-known "texture gradient." The retin a unconsciously performs some kind of a product-moment averaging routine on the textural elements t o reduce the blur, and the fact that much of the scene necessarily remains blurred normally goes unnoticed so long as the acuity demand remains low. But as we point in a specific direction blurring appears in the peripheral field

CIRCULATION AND EXPANSION IN THE UNIVERSE Peripheral Circular Movements
Circular movements seem to have a specific exciting effect on the eyes. They can prepare the real fascination work. It is to observe that the sense of rotation matters and as we do a circular movement we tend to excite our mind in a specific way 

EXCITING THE UNCONSCIOUS Central and Peripheral Vision
If you divide our brain into the conscious and subconscious, you could say that cone (central) vision is processed consciously, whereas rod (peripheral) vision is processed subconsciously.  At most times, your subconscious mind functions in the background, sifting through huge streams of information for your conscious mind to consider. There are two components of the visual system, focal (fovea) visionand ambient (peripheral) vision. Focal vision is primarily responsible for object recognition, and ambient vision is primarily responsible for spatial orientation. Peripheral vision is good at detecting motion (a feature of rod cells) so movement we do will be recognized and help in fascinating
Focal Vision. Focal vision is limited to the central two degrees of vision (i.e., the fovea) and is primarily a conscious  function. Focal vision allows one to see clearly in order to recognize objects and read displays. However, since it requires conscious thought, it is a relatively slow process. Focal vision is not primarily involved with orienting oneself in the environment, but can be used to acquire visual information about orientation. 
· Ambient Vision. Ambient vision is often referred to as peripheral vision. It is a subconscious function independent of focal vision whose primary role is to orient an individual in the environment.
For example, one can fully occupy focal vision by reading (a conscious action), while simultaneously obtaining sufficient orientation cues with peripheral vision to walk (a subconscious function). The same can happen when flying an aircraft and performing a task such as interpreting radar contact information on a HUD. Focal vision is used to consciously decipher task-oriented information while peripheral information is subconsciously used to maintain spatial orientation."

GOING BEYOND THREE DIMENSIONAL REALITY 
Altering binocular function
Binocular functions refer to the ability of the eyes to coordinate their activity so that we can merge the visual fields of both eyes into one distinct image. The most commonly observed aspects of binocular functions include convergence (the ability of the two eyes to team and focus on the same object), and accommodations (the ability of the eyes to shift their focus from near point to far point or vice versa). Each eye can have normal acuity (20/20 vision) but unless the eyes team, visual functions are impaired; <in observing very fast one eye after the other it seems that we alter binocular functions.

AWAKENING LEFT SIDE OF VISION - WORKING ON THE LEFT EYE

HANDS AS VISUAL CUE TO INCREASE ATTENTION

USING PERIPHERAL MOVEMENTS TO AFFECT THE PERCEPTION OF BODY POSITION
Moving the hand in the peripheral field of vision can result in affecting the sense of balance.
Different visual areas contribute to the processing of visual information coming from different parts of the visual field, and a complex of visual areas located along the banks of the interhemispheric fissure (a deep groove that separates the two brain hemispheres) has been linked to peripheral vision. It has been suggested that these areas are important for fast reactions to visual stimuli in the periphery, and monitoring body position relative to gravity.(Palmer SM, Rosa MG (2006). "A distinct anatomical network of cortical areas for analysis of motion in far peripheral vision". Eur J Neurosci 24 (8): 2389–405. doi:10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.05113.x. PMID 17042793)

PERIPHERAL MOVEMENT

ABSORBING
This refer to absorbing the spirit of the person in front of us

Arousal
Definition of Arousal
"arousal (arous·al) ([schwa]-rou¢z[schwa]l)  1. a state of responsiveness to sensory stimulation or excitability
We all have peaks and valleys in our arousal levels throughout the day. However most of us manage to maintain an appropriate level of arousal by the some of the strategies listed above to interact effectively with the environment. People who have difficulty maintaining an appropriate level of arousal spend more time in a high or low level of arousal and may constantly seek or avoid input to try and regulate arousal
Hyperactivity/High Arousal
Symptoms
"People with a high arousallevel often respond to sensory stimuli with a strong response, frequently a fight/flight/fright response. They may flee from sensory input and seek a smaller, quieter space to get away from too much input or they might scream in fright when confronted with too much sensory input."
"They also may have a hard time remaining focused or calm in busier environments..."

Binocular vision vs monocular vision and myopia
Myopia tend to be accentued in monocular vision and compensated a little in binocular 

Torsion:
Normally the eye should adapt itself to the tilting of the head. But in case of tension there can be problems. Also convergence could be more difficult


RELATIVE ACCOMODATION
The change in accomodation inserting a lens while mantaining clarity is called relative accomodation

CONVERGENCE, DIVERGENCE AND BLUR
Convergence and divergence are in part an answer to the blur
So, if we increase the blur without effectively changing convergence, as when we look for some time an object, we depotentiate the accomodative response 

VERTICAL HAND COMPARED TO FLAT HAND
A vertical target seem to influence the Mandelbaum effect and captures more the attention as a flat target. Therefore a flat hand can be useful for helping a person going in his dark focus more than a vertical hand, even if in both cases the subject feel the hand pointing at him
 

Another fascination method (luciow)
Put your subject in face of a light. Take the hands of your subject in your hands while your subject look at you. As soon as you perceive a change in the pulse (increase), put your hand on the front of your subject, your thumb near the eyelids and move bruskly his head, changing slightly the position of his head and saying him "look at me" and going at an average of 10 cm from his head

Diploplia
Though physiological diploplia is seldom noticed in everyday life, it is readily perceived when attention is drawn to it. For example, if a pencil is held vertically a short distance in front of the eyes while a more distant object is steadily fixated, the pencil will be seen in crossed diploplia. Hence the rule: uncrossed diploplia occurs when the object is farther than fixation, crossed diploplia when it is nearer than fixation

In general, the diplopic images are out of focus and insubtantial. Any impression of their distance frome the eyes would be greatly influenced by prior knowledge of the actual positions of objects in question, especially if the nearer one is held in hand. This means that by movement, once a first diploplia has been obtained through dark focus concetration, we can render our position uncertain.

Dark Point: position of phisiological rest
Anatomical rest
In tha absence of all innervation to the extraocular muscles, as in death, the eyes usually adopt a position of moderate divergence and elevation
Physiological rest
This is the position assumed in the absence of all stimuli determining orientation and occurs as a result of a minimal and balanced tonus of the extraocular muscles, as in deep sleep.
It is again a divergent position, but less than in the position of anatomical rest

Troxler Phenomenon
When the gaze is fixed intently on an object for a long time, peripheral images that tend to disappear to reappear immediately when the eyes are moved. This effect is called the Troxler phenomenon. To study it reproducibly it is necessary to use an optical device that ensures that the image of any object upon which the gaze is fixed will remain on the same part of the retina however the eyes move. Two investigators found, when they did this, that the stabilized retinal image tended to fade within a few seconds. It may be assumed that in normal vision the normal involuntary movements--the microsaccades and drifts mentioned earlier--keep the retinal image in sufficient movement to prevent the fading, which is essentially an example of sensory adaptation, the tendency for any receptive system to cease responding to a maintained stimulus. We can think that also this effect in in function as people fascinated try to "fix" himself on some exernal object.


SOME ELEMENT FACILITATING FASCINATION
There is a behaviour very similar to fascination called LATAH, that is inherent to malesian people.
Some elements of latah are very similaro to the elements facilitationg fascination:
1° Intense answer to present elements accompanied by:
A° desire to go near a animated or inanimated object
B° Obscene/sexual expressions

2° Excitation without reason, following a word, while at the same time the person can be very heroic in going toward the same being
(La rassegna Nazionale pag. 738)

3° Persons showing natural capacity of imitation

