Why is the hypnotic gaze induction different

Gaze has an incredible power. Even our auditory perception of space is influenced by gaze and experimental studies have also shown that in social interactions a steady gaze is a sure asset and that the eyes can change the answer of our partner (Keating, Mazur, Segall 1977). The eyes are even more important in the first contact with somebody, as many experts have observed that the first 30 seconds and the first 4 minutes of an encounter have crucial significance (Zunin 1976). In these cases many times we get answers from other people that in reality we create unconsciously.
 It has also been experimentally proved that the effectiveness of certain therapies can be directly related to the gaze interaction (Harrigan, Oxman e Rothental 1985).
 
Other experimental studies have shown that our logical mind is reduced and emotions are felt more intensely when somebody looks at us intensively.
 
In hypnotism, the effects of the hypnotic gaze inductions are noteworthy. However, we should also consider that there are two types of inductions referred to as "hypnotic gaze induction". In the first one, the use of the eyes is intermixed with words. In the second type, the most powerful and mysterious, no words at all are used, just the eyes and sometimes the hands. How we practice it in our school is as a completely non verbal technique. It is called "fascination". Behind it there is a very ancient secret school, that we can trace back to the Ancient Romans' time and even before. Aristotle , Plutarcus , Plinius , Marsilius Ficinus , Simone Maiolo, and even St. Thomas , Albertus Magnus and many others acknowledged the existence of such a power. Even the Greek tradition of the power of the Medusa is connected to it.
 
Fascination is a term used from the Middle Age involving catching someone's soul and attention just with your eyes.
 
It is often also referred to as love fascination, where some elements which are similar to hypnotic fascination are touched and where the most profound and instinctual part of a person is reached and excited.
 
Scientifically examined, hypnotic fascination in man has similarities to the phenomenon which is called "animal hypnotism" in the animal world. It is commonly known in the examples of the "chicken hypnotism", where a chicken will stay blocked in a state of tonic immobility looking at a line or in "snake charming". Even some animals are able to practice similar power on other animals, but only man is capable to use it for fostering his personal development.
 At the end of 1800, hypnotizer Donato went through whole Europe demonstrating this technique with incredible efficiency. It was as fast as lightning. However, after his death, his techniques became unknown.
 
The first time I (Dr. Paret) and my fellow researcher Dr. Tira assisted to a real fascination induction without words we were really stupefied. It was conducted by Virgilio Torrizzano, a man that had been initiated in this amazing ancient tradition. In less than 4 seconds the subject was with the eyes wide open and completely receptive, even to non verbal suggestions.
 
After this encounter, we became friends with Virgilio and we asked him to teach us how he did it. For many years thereafter we have been searching to unveil the secrets and the true methodology behind this power, dating in its history back to the Egyptians. We discovered it was not a single technique, but the tip of an iceberg: a complete system with its self-hypnosis, its therapy and a serie of steps of practice. If we had not carried out these researches these secrets would have survived only in the ancient tales or in their worst part, in the criminal approach. There are still some people, mostly in Italy and Russia, who are using states similar to those induced by fascination for hypnotic theft. These same techniques instead can be very useful for human growth.
 Most researchers agree that the state of fascination is different from what is intended with the current clinical verbal hypnosis, even if in some elements both techniques can overlap.
 
As many readers of this article will already know the verbal school of clinical hypnosis we will explain here some of the differences between the two systems.
 
For any hypnotist it is very helpful to know the secrets behind fascination, as one of our duties as practitioners is to use any technique which would prove useful to help individuals change and recover their true self as well as their psychosomatic balance; and many times with fascination we can get to these results faster and stronger.
 
Fascination can for example be very useful for getting immediate answers from the inner part of our mind.
 
What does it really happen during this kind of hypnotic gaze induction? 

Firstly, there is a profound change in perception. The ancient spoke of "mist". In this mist the subject often experiments an immediate trance, he feels removed from time and the material world.
 Why? Scientifically expressed, the fascinated subject immediately experiments various visual hallucinations as the focus of his eyes goes to a particular point called "dark focus" or "resting point of focusing". As your eyes focalize there, your mind goes in a sort of natural vacation and you do not recognise far and near any more. The "dark focus" is a phenomenon scientifically observed in aviators, who, sometimes, enter a sort of "trance", very dangerous while flying.
 It is like a physiological "black point", wired in our brain, where our perceptions change.
 This is a first difference with mainstream verbal hypnosis that, being psychologically oriented, does not rely on this kind of physiological reaction.
 
A second change is also a natural and spontaneous development of catalepsy, similar to the tonic immobility of animals.
 
For example, if we stroke an arm of a fascinated person, it will stay spontaneously rigid.
 While some researchers have related this kind of reaction to a defence mechanism, this is not the only explanation.
 
In this state there is also a sense of charge, strange excitation, inner energy, wellbeing and regeneration.
 
Going further with the hypnotic gaze induction we can therefore create complete body catalepsy, change and slowing of the heartbeat and also a state of general anaesthesia. The practitioner does not need to use any verbal suggestion. This is very similar to what is achieved with some prolonged Yoga practices where the yogin goes in a state similar to death.
 
We know some secret school that used this state exactly for mystic and ecstatic experiences.
 However, in normal clinical practice we do not prolong the induction in this direction, because it could be extremely difficult to awaken the subject afterwards.
 
Instead we can have various phenomena, as the subject is immediately highly responsive.
 Here there is a second difference. In the normal verbal hypnotic way of doing you need to follow the reaction of the subject to create a receptive state; here you already have the receptive state in a few seconds.
 
Therefore you can easily and we could say "mathematically" plan ahead exactly what you want to achieve, as for example somnambulism, amnesia, regression etc...
 
Planning ahead is also necessary for other reasons. For fascinating you should enter yourself in a state of "no thinking". You too you do not have to use your rational mind in operating. The best results are achieved as you are in a particular state, called "presence", central to many esoteric schools, as for example the school of Gurdjeff, the ch'an and some spiritual alchemical paths in the western tradition. It greatly enhances the power of fascination.
 
And finally you need to plan ahead because the subject will "feel" what is happening from your eyes and from the first moment in some deep and telepathic way. Franz Anton Mesmer, from whom the name "Mesmerism" is derived, included fascination in his practice of "animal magnetism". He said that magnetism could be transferred through the eyes to another person. He observed that this force was deeply connected to the instinctual part of man and he did in his life also a period of 3 months where he arrived to stay without any internal dialogue.
 
In fascination you use very few words and only if necessary. To really practice fascination you need to enter the frame of mind where you awaken and work only with the "animal mind" of the subject. For the lay people this seems a miracle. For example, to put away a neuromuscular tension you just fix your clients in both eyes, think energetically and strongly within yourself what you want to achieve and he will be healed. I have put a video on the internet showing me doing this technique. Our master Prof. Erminio di Pisa once treated in Milan 300 persons in a single day!
 Milton Erickson said "the conscious does not need to know what the unconscious does" and with fascination this is certainly true. Results are achieved without any conscious activity.
 Also you can easily put a subject into deep "instant somnambulism" where two realities coexist at the same time.
 
For example, yesterday I experimented a regression with a girl using this type of gaze induction. After having fixed her for about 4-5 seconds I just said that she was in another time and her hands began to move. This kind of movement is very strange when perceived from the clients, as the fascinated subject is aware of being there but at the same time does not know in reality what he is doing. It is their unconscious, their animal mind, that excited begins to react and move the body.
 In a second she said: "I'm in a corridor, I'm walking". The scene became immediately clear and she also gave me all other details. Then we healed her negative emotions. From the beginning of the induction to this moment of the corridor 6 or 7 seconds were elapsed. You cannot realize an instant regression in so few seconds with verbal techniques, as these techniques rely on words and words need time to be said. Instead a big advantage of fascination is that this example is not the exception, it is the rule.
 
Another interesting phenomenon is that many times we can get amnesia even after a very short span of time, more often than with any other method.
 
Other uses are coupling fascination first and relaxation techniques afterwards. You will see that the relaxation will be the strongest one you had ever experienced.
 
Another difference between animal hypnotism and mainstream clinical hypnosis is how words are used.
 
In our school ISI-CNV we have created a name: "counterlinguistics" for this very strange happening. For example all hypnosis and communication schools teach not to use the word "not" as you do an induction. However, it could be both perfectly fine to avoid using the word "not" in doing a hypnotic gaze induction, as it is surprisingly also perfectly fine to use it. Sometimes you will get even better results! You can repeat for example to a subject doing a movement: "you cannot block your hands", or even "you shouldn't be able to block your hands" and he will continue the movement and even enhance it. A reason could be that we are speaking with the unconscious animal mind. It reacts primarily to our intention. It is the conscious mind that reacts primarily on words. Thus as we get the results notwithstanding the language we are enhancing the power of the unconscious.
 
Another difference is that you must never mirror the subject with your words. "Mirroring" in modern hypnosis is often used to mean "bringing verbally unconscious reactions to the attention of the subject ". Somebody calls it "verbally ratifying the trance". In fascination you do not do it. Animals do not say themselves what they are doing. Verbalizing what is happening would risk breaking the "animal state" and plunging to a "normal psychological verbal hypnosis" where reactions could appear sometimes enhanced, but also in a more conscious way. On the other hand, in fascination you want the subject to have the possibility to really answer in a totally unconscious way and to get the change that he deeply wants to achieve, with the least conscious interference.
 Even here we can observe that the ancient, from which we have retrieved this tradition, used the same phrasing I have yet described. They also obtained results even stronger than the moderns in the fields of telepathy and distance healing. Mind to mind communication does not rely on words. Even animals can perceive it as many researches have tried to show.
 
Even what we call "magnetic fascination therapy" does not rely on words. It couples the power of fascination with "magnetism" for achieving best effects. Magnetism relies on the concept of energy and on the development of the operator energy in order to realize changes in the subjects. This is the Western school corresponding to the use of prana or chi in the East. For developing this force the operator will do a series of practices firstly on himself through a series of steps that once were kept very secret and taught only inside a spiritual path of development.
 
This therapy is very powerful. Change is achieved in a non-linear and quantum way. The other day a person with a very disturbing and antisocial problem went to me. I knew his problems because his brother had spoken to me about them, but I was compelled to the secrecy about what I knew and this person did not want to speak about it. After I understood it, I did not ask anything any more. I just practiced "mesmerismus" (a magnetic technique) and the person got healed. I did not know how, but I strongly felt when the result was achieved, and so it was.
 
Now I will give you some simple hints to begin practicing: 

1 - Develop your knowledge. Study and understand the ancient books of hypnotism, and mostly the ancient books speaking of magnetism and mesmerism. You will therefore discover many phenomenologies as thought transmission, magnetic healing, hypnotism without words etc... which are no more practised now. Try to understand why the ancient were so at ease with the wording "animal magnetism". Try to understand also that many words used have changed their meaning through the centuries and try to get the original meaning.
 
2 - Practice to make your eyes stronger. Begin fixing a dot on a mirror and fixing it without blinking. At the beginning you will be able to fix it just for some seconds. At this point close them and repeat. After a due exercise (10 minutes each day for some weeks) your eyes will become stronger. On our site www.mesmerismus.info you can even find a free course for becoming more effective with your eyes. This is an asset in every social situation.
 
3 - Practice the same exercise as before without dot and fixing your image in the mirror at the third eye (the ajna chakra for the Indians). 4 - Practice "muscular tension". Tensing a muscle and after releasing it.
 
5 - Fascination relies on sensibility. Find a friend and try to exercise what is called "thought transmission". Begin with modern exercises (there is plenty of books on the subject) but after go back to the ancient.
 
6 - Exercise with all your clients, and even in everyday situation, for discovering the effects of the various type of gaze.
 
7 - While you gaze and exercise on others, remember always that for fascination the quantum axiom is fundamental: "the observer influences the observed". So firstly work on yourself and your expectations before working with others!
 
Practice and do not hesitate to write me at paret@neurolinguistic.com for further ideas and hints. 
Author Resource:- Official site of Mesmerismus: http://www.mesmerismus.info 
Healing with the hypnotic gaze: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SuWD6eyD8aI 
Site of dr. Paret: http://www.marco-paret.pnl-3.com/english.htm
 
