Dr. Marco Paret

	
Coaching
and
Magnetic Success 

Practical instructions on how to use the secret energy of the mind and fascination in order to attain success –
 Practical applications aimed at improving one’s personal charm, life, profession, relationships, and financial activities 



ISBN13  978-0-935410-34-1  
© 2011 – NLP International Ltd

Preface
If you were to inquire from many people as to how they have attained success, they would reply to you that “they had been blessed with luck”, and that life’s circumstances had enabled them to give expression to their own inspiration. In actual fact, these persons set out from an inward impulse, from some force which is created out of their subjective interaction with the Universe. Ultimately, the Universe is what they actually give effect to. It is this force, this energy, which confers stability even on their life plan, and which enables them to persevere amid difficulties and through them. Resort to this kind of force is normally escorted by a feeling of satisfaction, and by a resolute desire to enjoy life with regard to every thing it has to offer.
For many people, these elements are additionally conjoined to a powerful charm which they exercise on their fellow humans. That is an aspect which empowers them to attain remarkable results even faster. By creating in fact a virtuous circle, they lead other persons to share and support their idea. Though these individuals seemingly engage in nothing that is deemed “special”, they elicit people’s sympathy, interest and high regard. Their presence is welcomed, and one feels as if he needs to win over their friendship and earn their esteem.
We have accordingly traced a path that aims at coaching and developing a person, a path which centralizes those aspects as firm parts of such program. In addition to personal success, this path will grant you the opportunity to love joyfully as well. 
For the sake of realizing this objective, it makes use of extremely developed techniques which are directed at bringing about change. They range from quantum techniques to self-hypnotic and magnetic ones which we have sought to set out and explicate here under as easily as we could possibly do. 
This work is the key to achieve success in any field of life, be it personal relationship, financial activity, or business, while at the same time staying loyal to our innermost being, so as to be truly ourselves and simultaneously put our talents to profitable use.

INTRODUCTION
Whatever is bereft of a purpose is no more than mere agitation (A. C. Brackett).

If we want to achieve results in life, we do not have to do more. Rather, we have to do things better and in a more targeted, purposeful manner. If you put into practice the teachings of this book, you will reach the point where “you make less effort and yet you produce more”. 
Success and happiness are always in front of us. All we need is learning how to stir into motion our vital energy, and how to steer it in the right direction, in order to enable it to yield positive results. The Universe is no more than a response structure. It is commensurately with the way in which we interact with the Universe that whatever we wrest from it emerges into existence. We are able therefore to extract results, provided we adopt the right posture.
One of the dimensions in respect of which our attitude matters is the temporal dimension, the one which relates to time. Time is a dimension in physics, and it is so in human life as well. It is an omnipresent factor, which everyone possesses but only few understand. It is, moreover, the first capital asset which any individual owns. It is the true mystery one has to pierce in order to understand how we should guide our vital force during the process of practical actualization. It is the secret lever for attaining whatever we desire. Every person is endowed with the same measure of this capital asset, though only a tiny elite of men is capable of exploiting it fruitfully. A clear-cut process to reach that goal exists. Whoever is successful, whoever achieves gratification in life, has understood it, possibly on an unconscious basis, and consequently develops his talents in conformity with that process. As for the one who fails to comprehend it, he will always remain unhappy. If we manage to understand this key, however, success will be shown to be far easier than what several people believe. 
You might read all the magazines you lay your hands on, and you might deploy all the possible strategies, but the key will always lie in using this element in order to be able to channel your vital force effectively. 
The desire to Live 
Which are the most universal, and at the same time the most commonly popular, ideals of man?
They are two:  
1. Living as long as possible;
2. Living in the best possible way in terms of comforts and material benefits. 
As for the means which are needed to actualize such ideals, they inter alia include the following: 
Good health (in order to live, act, and enjoy), 
Money
Time at one’s disposal to enjoy life.
However, there is especially one element which is the crucial key – the Desire to Live: 
The desire to enjoy life is the active will, the will which is almost greedy in its impulse to enjoy life and appreciate the wonder which the universe consists in. It is this desire which has the power to multiply time.
A depressed person, a person enslaved by some habitual routine, or a bored individual, might ostensibly achieve success in a chance manner, such as by winning the lotto associated with sports results. 
But even on the assumption such people “won” in that sense, they would probably be unable to know what to do with the money thus gained, and they would soon fritter it away in some useless undertakings.
What we call “desire to live” is, by contrast, a vital energy, the sole desire of which is to find an external outlet of self-expression. It is a desire to be and to enjoy the universe. By self-exteriorization, such desire naturally leads one to attain the benefits of concrete results and felicity. 
Those who score the highest are also people who find pleasure in living and in all the marvellous aspects which the world can offer. It is precisely this pleasure which engenders attentiveness to life, which makes one discover opportunities and develop them, and which allows him to be persevering.
If we succeed in learning how to rediscover or perpetuate in our beings the desire to live, in particular those qualities we refer to as “being present to ourselves” and “being present to our own time”, we will then also reach the halfway mark on the path of acquiring, perpetuating and multiplying health and money.
The true art of being happy 
The teaching provided within the folds of this book, therefore, coincides with the art of being happy. This teaching consists in enabling man’s natural expansion, in knowing how to keep alive an enduring and ardent joy, one, that is, which makes life fuller and more interesting. Based on the departure point of this energy, this writing of ours will act as a guide allowing you to manage all the matters of your life which have been left hanging, whether it is how to manage your electronic mail, your profession, or your interpersonal relationships.  
You will discover through its pages that it is also a teaching that somehow manages to extend life, while at the same time it leads us to develop an interest in our work and in pleasure. 
Freeing our selves and freeing time
Time is represented by our own selves. We are thus the ones in need of being freed. Most people have an obstructed mental structure which has become fixed in habits and actions which their subconscious dictates. Accordingly, they consume their time in activities that are devoid of a link to their true being. These people, now and then, might even take some good resolutions, but it is as if they subsequently forgot they had ever taken them. As a result, they incessantly reiterate the same things, and forever tread the same path. Instead of living life, these people are lived by it. This category of persons, quite simply, cannot attain the results they wish for themselves, because, while not even being aware of it, they block their vital energy. That is the reason why they find it so hard to attain results and succeed. 
If we are making too much effort, we ought to pause and reflect:
What truly matters is what we do. How can we steer our vital force?
This method leads you to re-establish the correct structure of life and being. 
Exercise 1 – Questions:
Which of my daily actions bring me closer to what I want?
What pleasure do I derive in carrying out such actions?
If I were to give my life a mark from one to ten, do I think I am enjoying life to its fullest?
Let us recapitulate: The element of «time» is the first individual capital asset, inasmuch as it is the space within which we act. The good news is that it is extremely easy to attain control over the element of time, due to the fact that such element is a construct, and as such it exclusively depends on our own attitude and on the extent to which we shall be “present to our own selves”.  The people who in their lives enact such self-presencing are endowed with all the different types of freedoms. At that point, your life, your being, your financial situation, the state of your interpersonal relationships, all of that is able to develop a higher speed.  
The method we are going to set out in this book, therefore, answers all these various questions: 
Is it possible to operate in the field of free activity, the field of individual action, in such a way as to carry out a more effective undertaking within the same time of span (say, for instance, one day), and thus secure for ourselves “more time”, so to speak?
Is it possible, amid the tumult of everyday life, to find a simple method that enables us not to lose sight of our own selves?  
Is it possible to daily reduce the role which is played in our existence by the type of chance we fear, and simultaneously increase the percentage of likelihood and materialization of the chance we hope for?
Is it possible to reduce the effort that is needed to carry out a particular deed or series of deeds, which we now come to view as “tiresome”? Is it even possible to reach the stage of turning the context into a “pleasant” one?
In the light of the fact that the world is shaped by chance, is it possible to discover a method whereby we can exploit each and every situation, in such a manner as to definitely derive from it, at all times, the maximum benefit or the least possible harm?
Is it possible to eradicate the cerebral wandering which alone absorbs the greatest part of our psychological activity?
Is it possible to make use of this energy saving by employing it for the implementation of necessary actions in a humanly perfect way?
We are thus faced with a number of problems to which we assign one and the same affirmative answer.
The aim of this book does not stop at making you gain, as it also leads you to generally achieve success in whatever you do.
Many people act out Lafontaine’s fable of the sour grapes attitude: Because the grape is dangling from too high a place, the fox declares it to be sour. Plentiful people give up and then rationalize their act of renunciation. The truth, however, is that the grape is not sour. A lot of people give up and supply their own selves with justifications for doing so. Please forego, right from this moment, the temptation to exonerate yourselves, and start to act! 
FIRST POINT – Self-control and freeing the basic energy
Many people are swept by life and strive hard just to pay their bills. They tirelessly work and yet earn less than others despite the fact they share with them the same qualification. How can one explain the paradox that the individual who succeeds often consumes less energies than those who fail to achieve results? It occurs quite frequently that the poor person works more and harder than the affluent man. The one blessed with fortune strains himself less than the luckless individual. Let us remember what the poet declaimed: “Every person is the maker of his own fortune 1”. It might be the case that, insofar as the people who do not score results are concerned, the mind “wanders around idly”, or that, at the least, it roams about without any definite purpose, thereby wasting its remarkable potential. The first point we are going to reach, therefore, is the point of “doing more by doing less”, i.e. learning how to eliminate all the wasteful slag, the useless actions, thoughts and words, which fill up our life and wrest time from us. We must first know how to be ourselves, simply ourselves, and only thereafter we should target an action. The initial work is the one that is carried out on the mental aspect: Every useless thought steals away some vital force, mental clarity and time. We should likewise view unnecessary repeated thoughts as being divested of any usefulness: How many times should we keep on formulating a particular resolution in our minds? For the successful person, it is enough if he says to himself, ‘Do!’ just once, as he then acts upon that self-injunction. As for the person who cannot produce results, he tells himself a thousand times that he should be doing something, without ever getting to do it at all.  If you become conscious of that, you will discover that a large part of what you used to do was of no use whatsoever, and that it merely consumed some of your energy. 
It is not only thoughts which rob us of energy. Emotions, too, rob us our time and freeze it. If, by contrast, we attain control over emotions instead of letting ourselves be carried along by events, we might be able to define them. Such a new attitude has an impact on our life and our relationships with third parties. In that manner, you will develop and increase your own “natural magnetism”, and you will become more aware both of your own selves and your vital energy, whereby you will begin to set out towards the fulfilment of your personal ideals.
SECOND POINT – Directing energy towards time
Once we have achieved control over our own selves, we find that an essential aspect consists in activating our vital energy and allowing it to fully express itself in the realm of the outward. In this connection, there are two possible directions towards which our vital energy might flow: One, which is linear in nature, is represented by programming and focusing mentally on the goals to achieve, whereas the other one is represented by living in the moment and being present to opportunities. We are not only called upon to enjoy life, but also to multiply it. The first key enabling us to fulfil that goal is being present to our own relationship with the Universe. The truth is that, when we are present, synchronicity is brought into being; we might thereupon be able to understand through the medium of signs and circumstances, the exact nature of which is unveiled to us,  and our intuition might discern the direction which our ideal should face, and which ideal we ought to head for. If we then clearly resolve upon moving in that direction, we might become capable of avoiding the danger of being swept along by life, by the becoming of events, nay, we might succeed in attaining a position of control over the same. When that takes place, programming turns into a way in which we think about the present better, in so far as it empties the mind of the future; provided that, once the direction for our day has been set, we stay present as much as possible. In that event, the Universe will begin to respond to us and even to help us move further than what our self might have ever imagined.  
THIRD POINT – Acting Spontaneously
In the end analysis, the key is being active. It is to know how to act, and on that basis organize our activity in such a manner that the ultimate goal we offer ourselves will draw near us naturally, as opposed to leaving our action in the grip of the whims of psychological automatism and our habit-loving subconscious. It is essential that it is not just our little ego that should act. It is our essential inward being that must act, and make sure that each one of our thoughts, words and acts, lead us to such a goal, or at least does not distance us from it, in a natural fashion.
FOURTH POINT – Guiding the Universe to Assist us 
At that point, a new way of being has been originated into existence. This new way of being consists in being in a state of harmony with our essential being and in developing ourselves within the Universe. Thereupon, things might be attracted instead of being chased after. We might go beyond the element of time itself, and realize ourselves even before the deadline we had originally set for ourselves. 
It is only a few elements which are encompassed by this method that are already known. The exercises we are going to present are in the main newly-minted. As for the generality of the method, it is completely novel.
Summary
1. Working on the Mental dimension (Coordinating thought)
2. Working on the emotional level
3. Establishing connection with one’s own self and with the Universe in order to understand one’s own ideal
4. Activating the vital energy and steering it towards time 
5. Acting spontaneously
6. Doing and letting the universe act as our supporting aid 

The following are some of the keys we are going to make use of:
Being 360° conscious of our own selves  
Being present to our own selves and to time  
True success is born out of our “individualized being”
Knowing how to develop and channel energy
Delving into life on the strength of intuition and creativity

Let us examine these keys in detail:
A)  The four levels 
We must be 360 degrees conscious of our own selves. Human reality is a superimposition of thoughts, emotions and actions. In the course of our life, we traverse more than just one reality. Many people are like puppets: Whenever some strings are pulled, everything else is pushed aside.
Sometimes we are led by emotions, while at other times we are only present inside our thoughts. Lastly, we find that a number of people are unceasingly detached from reality, whereas for others all that exists is eating and drinking. By contrast, in order for us to attain what we wish, we need to set out from a concept which is grounded on overall balance and on knowing how to be conscious of every stage at which we operate on any one of these levels.  There are four levels in our being. We might even find a physiological basis for them (see shortly here under): The physical level, the emotional level, the mental level, and a spiritual level. It is out of their mutual coordination that joy and true energy spring forth.

Spiritual
Mental
Emotional
Physical
Physiology of the different levels
Our brain is host to different structures: 
The cerebellum, that is, the area of the head which is responsible for the primary stimuli. We might easily find a correspondence between some of the cerebellum’s reactions and the physical level
The midbrain is responsible for man’s emotional aspect 
The cerebral cortex, which is the locus of reasoning and fantasy 
These three distinct areas of the brain might thus lend themselves to be rather easily equated to the physical, emotional and mental levels. As for the spiritual level, it is like an upper level which represents the synergy of these first three levels.
B)  Connection with our essential being, and understanding the direction of the Universe
True success is only originated in our own selves. There is an inward essence to our selves, a deep essence of our selves which we can access through the medium of specific exercises. This essence of our individualized being encompasses our forces and our potentialities. This essential inward being, which often stays “unconscious” as far as many people are concerned, and out of the shores of which the region of the conscious hardly emerges, and then only to the level of its more shallow strata, reveals itself with greater clarity in the course of dreams. Which is the person who – during a dream – has not authored verses or composed music, delivered lectures or solved problems, or formulated plans endowed with a power which far exceeded our capacities in the state of wakefulness? Yet all of that emanated from you, it was ensconced in you, implanted in your senses and in your brain. It means, therefore, that you are potentially far more than what you might presume to be. « I do not work; I listen», were the words De Musset used to address to whoever asked him about the modus operandi he utilized for his poems. As for Lamartine, he was accustomed to mention what follows: «I am not the one who is thinking. My ideas, rather, are the ones that think on my behalf». It is only within our essential being that we might detect the particular ideal we need to aspire to. It is from the viewpoint of such essential inward identity that the energies we require to achieve whatever we wish might arise. The contact that is established with one’s essential being is the result of actualizing a state of general “harmony”, and knowing how to utilize intuition.


Physiology

Our essential being is other than our brain: It consists in the entirety of our being. That is why bodily or general relaxation methodologies are profoundly useful to the purpose of establishing contact with it. Drawing attention to the navel is another way of helping the process of centralizing oneself. In this regard, we might conceive man as having two minds: One mind which is represented by our “enteric brain”, which is situated in the nervous plexuses at the level of the navel, and which is linked to our deepest responses. At the level of our stomach there is in fact a second mind, which is responsible for hereditary reactions, digestion and a large part of physiology. It is no coincidence then, that when we feel an irritation precisely in that area we experience discomfort and stomach ache. Gastritis is frequently connected to an essential inward being which is not sufficiently recognized …  
C)  Consciousness of time and being present to oneself 
Being present to our own selves and to time.  If infinite time was available to us, it might be found that discrepancies between man and man would be erased. Everything is ultimately traced back to an issue of time: Learning a language, as well as succeeding in a business deal or in discovering something.  
The only Magical Formula:

Knowing how to use Time well
+
Vital Energy
=
Doing and achieving ANYTHING we wish 
Time and consciousness are interconnected. Chronological time is in fact the same for all and sundry. It is the consciousness one has of such time that changes from person to person. As regards some people, a day is nothing more than a repetition of habits. For others, it is a great adventure in which every moment counts. In order to have more time, we must be present to life and to its wonder, to be conscious of what we do. We must, lastly, operate in each one of the different dimensions of time: 
In absolute time, the time of intuition and opportunities; 
and in linear time, which is the time of planning.
The one who, at all times, limits himself to planning, or the one who, invariably, merely lives life as it comes, is only capable of exploiting some of the gifts which life extends to him. It is only by conjoining the dimensions that one progresses in life.  Once such conjunction has been realized, you will notice yourself being additionally able to develop a greater magnetism in life, and things will come to you, they will fall into your hands of their own accord, as opposed to you frantically chasing after them, caught in a chase which often proves to be futile.
D) 	Vital energy
Creating and Steering energy. The vital energy represents the second element in the under-stated fundamental dyad, which represents the essential key to achieve any thing:
The Fundamental dyad
1 – Consciousness of what we do in the now and over time 
2 –Vital Energy
The vital energy, which is the foundation that underpins true personal magnetism, is chiefly physical in nature. It consists in vitality. Usually, however, we are devoid of true consciousness of it. When that is the case, which is the normal scenario, vital energy is merely used and consumed away in the effort of preserving our habits. Many people’s reactions are piloted by a tiny little ego which is capricious and wasteful in setting out to attain its objectives. Such objectives accordingly fritter away this vital energy in the undertaking of aimless actions.
A parallel exists between what we do with mental energy and what we do with the gifts and possibilities life offers us, such as relationships and our money. Avoiding dispersions of mental energy and channelling it in the right direction represent human engagements which need to be carried out in order to increase energy, and thereby expand the range of our active doing. 
If we concentrate, the greater amplitude of mental power which is generated by concentration has the effect of us developing power in reality and naturally transcending habits. When that stage is reached, we will then be capable of enjoying the opportunities life supplies us with. 
The key of rhythm as a way of creating more energy 
Not only we can gather energy, but we can augment it as well. Our body is a machine which is designed in such a way as to create energy.  As with any other machine, in order for that to happen, however, all its parties must act in synergy.
From a physiological point of view, our organism is bilateral. In a similar fashion, our brain is made up of two hemispheres. On the basis of the aforesaid, two distinct ways of creating such synergy arise:
The rhythm of oscillation, as a result of which greater power is brought about by alternating activities and methods of action that act on different parts of the brain;
The power of wedding these varied energies, This ensures that even greater power materializes in the scenario where the whole of our being acts simultaneously in a coordinated manner. 
This principle of alternation and conjunction of diverse energies is one of the keys to success. We are enjoined to link together reason and intuition, and alternate activity and rest. Such a “dual dimension” is strictly connected with the development of all our energies. Vitality, too, depends on a rhythm of oscillation. It depends, that is, on the establishment of a balance between the voluntary and the involuntary systems, between the conscious and the unconscious. 
Developing a surplus potential
If we own surplus capital, we can then invest it. The same holds true of vital energy. The more we develop energy, the greater our capacity to venture into new directions. Let us make it clear that developing vitality has nothing to do with muscular vigour or with the robustness of one’s physical constitution. The latter are desirable conditions, inasmuch as frequent diseases and muscular weakness represent causative agents of inferiority. Nevertheless, a 70-year old person might have greater vitality than a 20-year old one, since true vitality is a surplus, and as such equated to the scenario where one has in his bank account available cash to spend. What we are saying here, in fact, is that true consciousness of oneself and true will are rooted in a surplus of nervous tension (or neuric strength), which primarily consists in a mental aspect.
What it is, then, that we should do? We must learn how to create and store away, how to accumulate tension within a balanced organism. This state is named “vital erethism”. We are immersed in a state of vital erethism whenever our nervous potential is high, in other terms, whenever we have some energy demanding to be released. For example, we have gastric erethism when the papillae of the stomach are stimulated by the juices which require food to be elaborated, when, to put it simply, we feel appetite. At that point we are more alert, more active. We feel well when we realize that our balance sheet contains some spare energy, in precisely the same way as a commercial sheet is deemed good when it shows a net positive amount.
We have a muscular erethism when our muscular fibre, well nourished and rested, asks to engage in some physical exercise; in other words, when, to give an illustration, the legs naturally set themselves in motion, so to speak, when we would gladly jump around a bit, race for a while or relish a somersault. Erethism, therefore, always derives from a surplus of available strength. 
Not only the person who fails to see to this surplus for the sake of carrying out a voluntary physiological action deprives himself of all the joys occasioned by the fulfilment of a physiological need, and thus, essentially, of optimism, as the latter consists in a fulfilled exigency; not only he foists on his body a state of muscular and nervous exhaustion stripping him of any energy, but he also hastens briskly towards chronic illness and nervous senility.
The essence of Epicureanism did not lie in actualizing gratification. It rather consisted in the art of paving the way for enjoyment. It consisted, in other words, 
in the ensemble of norms which regulated one’s knowledge of how to enjoy things and how to understand and taste joy. The first such rule is to grasp the truth that the true source of pleasure is embedded in our own selves. 
Erethism or nervous potential, to be understood in the sense we have assigned to such a term, not as something taken to the extreme length of engendering a nervous monomania, is the true source from which one’s inclination to will, to act, to genuinely carry out those functions which are specific to an individual who is healthy and alive, springs out.
This is a key to personal magnetism and the capacity to influence situations. The more you develop such key, the more far-reaching will be the magnetic impact you are going to produce, whether that occurs in the field of business deals or the arena of interpersonal relationships.

The key to Tension and Relaxation
One of the keys that might be utilized for the purpose of developing this vitality, is to alternate tension and relaxation. Tension and relaxation represent two opposite poles, but they are also two techniques by using which we might calm our thoughts, in addition to increasing our neuric strength and our nervous potential. 
E) 	Geniality and Originality
Knowing how to access intuition and creativity. We move in this context within the dimension where our ascension to higher levels can only be expressed by our intuition. The path we have opted to tread is accordingly based on seizing our own geniality as well. Every person is unique, and he can, by means of establishing connection with his own self, develop a finer understanding of where such uniqueness lies.
The key provided by Light

In this specific connection, we are going to have recourse to traditions aimed at occasioning man’s development which make use of light as a physiological aid, in its different guises of fires, candles, lamps, and so on. The ancient Zoroastrians, for example, used to pray by gazing at a fire. We are entitled to believe they were moving along an important methodological course. Such practice embeds a secret which reaches us from the depths of the most remote past, a secret which science has not yet been able to study and unveil properly.
Light excites the neuron to its maximum extent (at least as far as the visual aspect is concerned).  Recent researches additionally corroborate, for instance, the fact that through the use of light we might be able to create a state of development of creativity. Physical light is thus a FACILITATOR, and as such it “multiplies” what is already present in the mind.
In order to attempt an explanation of the usefulness which light is regaled with, we are presently going to resort to a series of reflections based on modern quantum theory. The Universe is a whole. From this whole, our perception “excises” some parts. The parts thus severed from the whole correspond to certain vibrational states of our neurons. In order to see a tree, for instance, the neurons of the visual cortex must be activated in a manner which is different from the one that is needed when, to give an example, we discern a mountain.
This very same concept is also at the heart of Pribram and Bohm’s holonomic theory: "Every sense works like a lens, and thus refocuses the visual waves both by perceiving specific elements which are reiterated so as to establish an underpinning basis, and by perceiving distinct quantities. If we were to take the lenses off, only a hologram would be left”.
Given that every sense works by refocusing in accordance with certain mechanisms, it is very difficult to regain access to the WHOLE.
We might call this whole a "totipotent whole", by drawing a comparison with the concept of "totipotence" which is used in the biology relating to stem cells that are capable of growing in every cell of the organism.
White light is a "totipotent whole", inasmuch as it encompasses all the colours in its quantum superposition. 
What we name reality is purely the light that gets reflected on the different objects. Every visible object is already potentially present in the white light. 
Many experiences share the experience of light.
When we observe light and, even more significantly, when we are able to discern or imagine white light even if our eyes are shut, we are drawing close to the “totipotent field", which is in turn quite closely related to the concept of "quantum field".
The ancient humans used to link to it such phenomena as, for example, clairvoyance. There are peoples, including the Pygmies in Africa or the Parsi, who, up until these days, gaze at the fire in order to draw inspiration from it. As a matter of fact, by making use of it you would be able to develop financial intuition and the capacity to discover new ways, and you will keep on awakening your spirit of initiative. 
Exercise 2: The power of light 
Look at a light (maximum 60 watts, and at least one and a half meter away), alternatively at a candle (though in the latter case the effect will be less intense), inside a dark room, for a period of 30 seconds. Afterwards, you should close your eyes and keep them shut until the last luminous vestige has disappeared. As you are busy fixing the last fading trace of light, you will notice an inward sensation. Keep on practicing this exercise on a daily basis, in so doing developing your focus on the vestigial trace of light. If you do so, the exercise will start "awakening your mind" and render all the subsequent stages of the work easier. This technique might further prove useful every time you intentionally want to grant yourselves “an extra gear”. 

The foundations of true success
The aim/ideal
The concept of “success” which we employ in the present book is the concept of true success. The Latins used to teach us the following: «Prima charitas incipit ab ego» (“The very first charity begins with oneself”), to wit: We must take care of the others, while paying attention to ourselves as well.   We are the only unassailable reality which we are caused to meet in this world.
True success is intimately linked to individual fulfilment and to exteriorized actualization in the world of our natural talents. It is thus primarily a personal success, while it is a social goal only in a subordinate sense. 
What we mean by «success», therefore, is the art of bettering and multiplying our specific gifts in accordance with our ideals, as well as the art of knowing how to utilize them fruitfully in every possible way.
“Positive exploitation” has both an economic and an existential signification. Going back to the metaphor of the tree and the fruit it yields, if we use fruit as an image for one’s actions, then the trunk is represented by our being which ought to allow energy to flow, while the root consists in our deep individualized being, which is entrenched in the ground. The ground might be a metaphor to describe the Universe, which our essential being must be in relation with, and with which it must be in a state of mutual harmony. Besides, due to the fact that a certain method of cultivating the soil might be more apposite than another, we must be able to adapt our personality to the surrounding environment. Inner satisfaction is the only condition which might confer continuity on what you are busy doing. It is only inside you that you might find the strength enabling you to attain the loftiest goals on an enduring basis. 
Had the chance been granted to interview the greatest leaders, the most famous artists, the most renowned philosophers, the discoverers, the saints, in short, the heroes, and they had been solicited in the course thereof to lay bare the secret behind their success, they would have undoubtedly replied that nature had made them what they were. At best, they would have added, by way of supplying an explanation, that theirs was an irresistible tendency, such that they had actually experienced no self-straining or sacrifice, or at least that they had gladly endured it.
In order to succeed, it is first of all necessary to discover this tendency in us, to understand how a creative principle, a departure point, a resolution from which we might subsequently give birth to a myriad of follow-up actions, might be set in motion. 
If you act while being in touch with your own selves in accordance with what we are going to set out in this book, you might achieve success, earn more, experience better relations in life, and enrich yourselves in a most simple and natural way 2.
I. It is in other words imperative that we should find in our own selves what is commonly referred to as an inspirational idea behind life, that is, an ideal 3 which is outwardly actualized through the attainment of feasible “objectives”.
II. It is in the second place obligatory that the acts which are carried out should all be interlinked and directed at realizing, in a natural and fruitful manner, this ideal or aim that has been generated by the creative principle.
The following stages are thus encountered on this path, stretching from the beginning to the final success:
1. The origin (The idea that inspires one’s life);
2. Reflecting on this idea and defining it better, until one is capable of demarcating an ideal both by looking into himself and through the medium of confronting the external environment;
3. Resolutions, that is: 
4. “Practical ideation” = Deciding what to do and how to transpose it from idea to action, by setting targets for ourselves and drawing up plans;  
5. Action;
6. The end.
Finding the good Set-up
If we were to compare a human being to an aircraft, we would think that, though the engine is an essential element, the set-up is even more fundamental. A glider, in fact, might fly long distances even without engine. The energy we are going to inject is important, yet the correct mental set-up is of even greater relevance. 
If we were to postulate the existence of two different men sharing the same ideal/goal, the factor which would determine the superiority of one of them over the other, and thus the former’s greater likelihood of attaining that common goal, would not so much be his superior endurance of mental effort, but rather his capacity not to lose sight of what he is doing, i.e. the strength to pursue a specific path without ever deflecting from it, save insofar as any such temporary deviation might shorten the distance that separates him from his goal. The first cause of failure lies in dispersion and forgetting one’s good intentions. It is accordingly important to be well settled in one’s choices and thoughts. Surely, the only ideal which we do not become oblivious to is the ideal that is originated in the depth of our innermost being and is connected to it, as that is the ideal allowing us to openly express ourselves and be in harmonious unison with the world we belong to. Whoever is firmly entrenched in this sense is he to whom fortune offers every thing that might be encompassed by desire.
Will
Those men who achieve some form of success are those who are acquainted with what they need, and consequently move forward along this methodological path. They never lose recollection of what they want, nor do they ever forget to question themselves every step of the way. They are those individuals who are thus labelled by their fellow humans as “strong-willed” men. This will, however, is in actual fact rather than an abstract faculty, contrary to what some people might imagine. Will is only worth its name if it is outwardly actualized in a single direction. In order to kick-start one’s will, therefore, it is necessary to will something, to have a specific purpose. The inherent loftiness of a will — as we shall see here under — is precisely the basis from which its first igniting motion and its effectiveness descend.  
Objective ? Will (and only at a later stage Will ? Objective)
Vitality: The nervous or neuric force
Lastly, in order for the will to be fully actualized and attain its purpose, it is an indispensable requirement that it should be conjoined to our nervous force, to that human potential which is also termed “neuric force” or “vital force”. This is a primary force that is linked to man’s naturalness, one which is stirred into motion as soon as man is born. It consists in an exteriorized will to live. It might be compared to the electrical force which is capable of setting a machine in motion. A sufficiently extolled reason will always stir will into action, and yet such will is exposed to the risk of bending down a short while later, in the event that there is a deficient degree of the energy which is a sine qua non of psychological activity, namely, one’s nervous strength 4. Neuric strength, in fact, is man’s “vitality”. A healthy man, the one who develops himself in a balanced fashion, naturally possesses a certain amount thereof.  As for the human being who is the victim of worries or is blocked by emotions or by his mental side, he causes such neuric force to get dispersed. Specific exercises are, however, capable of retrieving it as well as strengthening it. Accumulation, preservation and distribution of energy are thus comparable to a problem relating to financial addition and subtraction 5. Every financial problem has indeed two components to it: How to avoid losses, and how to maximize profits. In this specific instance, richness consists in the energy we are able to charge into our own selves, and which will later turn, provided you fully implement what is set out in the pages of this book, into monetary wealth and a wealth of interpersonal relationships as well. Avoiding its dispersion is something which depends on our own capacity to gather energy. In addition, this energy is at the heart of personal magnetism. 
Energy as the foundation of Willing
There is an interconnection between willing and energy. A fickle and self-dispersive person might even say that he wills, and yet he is unable to succeed. His is not an authentic will, since an authentic will is intrinsically able to yield results. Lack of energy invariably imposes a limiting cap on the extent of volitional capacity which any given man is equipped with. At any particular moment, in fact, we wish no more than “what we can actually wish”. Just as in the field of human behaviour, it is not enough for one of us to say, ‘I want to be good’ or ‘I want to be brave’, in order for him to actually actualize that wish, so long as the declaration to the effect that “I want” does not arise out of the deep roots of our personality. 





High Vitality and concentration




Low vitality and dispersion

That is the basis of the relevance attaching to a series of exercises aimed at strengthening one’s person and personality. These exercises have the ability to increase your vital force and, consequently, the range of your action as well.

To will in a full and conscious way is your aim. Once we learn how to will, our will is set at rest, and thus becomes lucid and smooth. Every action will then gush out spontaneously and in a relaxed manner. The frantic dispersive activity will cease to exist. The seats which regulate the functioning of the brainstem, through active release, will bring peace to our brain, thereby occasioning a true self-hypnotic state. We will then be serene and happy, thrusting ourselves into the present, oblivious of the past, and without thinking of the difficulties ensconced in the future 6. 
There are of course some individuals who are spontaneously able to will; they also happen to be the magnetic persons who exercise an impact on the outside environment. 
This category of people, too, might derive some benefit from developing the methodology laid out herein, as that will cause them to refine their natural gifts further and to develop what is called personal magnetism.
Ideal and Aim + Neuric Force = Positive result
It is only through a clear mind that we manage to attain what we want. In the light of this reflection, it might happen that, once it is examined, one’s coveted purpose will fade away or appear to provide inadequate justification for the efforts it calls for in order to be brought about. When that happens, one’s purpose will have to be formulated anew. The truth, indeed, is that only those ideals born out of an inspiration, of the translation of one’s own essential being into action, and of a path of self-evolution within the Universe, are truly endowed with validity. Otherwise, it cannot be necessarily stated that volitional increase is going to find a corresponding echo in a superior result. 
When, however, the inspiring purpose is valid, it will be extremely easy to ready the means for its attainment and to channel our vital force. There is nothing mysterious in all of that. The only thing that is needed is to find a way to elaborating a system by which our goal is made clear to our mind. That is precisely what the present book achieves.
The first key: Establishing connection with oneself 
Many people speak of luck, but luck is born out of our own thoughts. It arises out of the way in which we think, react, feel in the world, and relate to it.
Even the frequency of what we call “coincidences” increases for the person who is pursuing and evolving a plan based on his own self.
The aims and ideals which are capable of granting us satisfaction, and in which we can invest energy, are those which are connected with our profound individualized essence. This essential being might be physiologically identified with the balance between a person’s different parts and the surrounding Universe, that is, with the profound harmony which is embedded at the centre of our own selves 7.  As it is located above all the various mental superstructures, it might be the origin of a new, truer and more effective way of being. As far as this essential being is concerned, life is inherent concordance and unity.

The essential being and the self 
We can then legitimately describe this essential “identity” as being a vaster part of our personality, and refer to it as our primary and harmonious being, which is free from any conditioning as well as from impulsive modes of reasoning.
By contrast, we might justifiable define as “self”, or as “Mr. Self”, our individualistic “ego”, that is, the self that consists in its habits, our egotistic self which unceasingly craves for its “comfort zones”, desires to reproduce them over and over again, and refrains from reasoning in accordance with long-term goals as opposed to purely quotidian conations represented by such expressions as “I am feeling …”, and “I do not feel …”. The truth is that the worst aspect is the fact that, oftentimes, we do not have just a single such “self”, but rather a multiplicity of “selves”. One day we might want something, while the next day we want something else. If we lean on these peripheral “selves”, we will never truly know where to go.  
The relationship between the essential inward being and the self
This self might even be useful if it helped us adapt to the environment, while at the same time remembering that it is a mere superstructure. Normally, in fact, that is exactly how such a self is born: In the child, the self is born as a defence system on the strength of which he can journey across the sea of life and cultivate the illusion of having a few certainties.  Subsequently to such an initial stage, however, that self has a tendency to take firm roots, forget the reason why it was originated into existence in the first place, and lose connection with the more global individualized essence of a human being, the inward being of the person. 
Whereas our essential inward being constantly remains the same, the external reality changes all the time. When the relationship that prevails between the intimate essential being and the self is broken, that is, when the external self is no longer in touch with the internal being, the external self will be merely ruled by the single moment, by contingencies, by ostensible needs. Problems might accordingly arise.
Several men, although they are indefatigable workers, do not succeed in anything they do, because they shift this way or that way, and their present activity bears hardly any resemblance with the one they engaged in yesterday or will engage in tomorrow. They lack consciousness of a central point of harmony which might grant them the opportunity to steer their own actions ... The attendant result is that, rather than thrusting forward, they constantly find themselves thrown back to some point of departure, to an invariably different goal. This kind of person is lost in self- dispersion.
Truly speaking such people are not apathetic. Indeed, in many instances they are very active, and yet they are confused souls at the mercy of a thousand divergent impulses, as if the array of disparate characters making up their personalities alternately sought to overcome each other in an ongoing mutual squabble. Their intimate being is perennially absent, a mere absent-minded and passive spectator of the struggle of which he is the battlefield.
These people do not really know what they want. 
There is no end to the number of people who simply dream up their existence rather than actually carving it out for themselves. Such individuals live in a reality of thoughts which they cannot link to the strength of their actions.
Therefore, it is not so much the force of one’s ingenuity as the strength of maintaining self-consciousness and presence to ourselves, of sticking to the exigencies that our specific task demands, and adapting without delay to the different circumstances with the same speed whereby a liquid adapts to the vase it is poured into without loosing its own intrinsic nature, that gifts us the key to success. Not only that, as it is in fact such strength that also marks the summit of human evolution.
The said tragic fight between the inward being and the outward self represents the entire inner drama of existence.
The price of freedom and the value of life consist in the effort of gradually freeing our essential inward being from the egotistic and fickle self, and in forcing the latter back to its mere function of an instrument.
Our egotistic and individual self is the one which creates in us the desire for comfortable idleness, leisure and shortcuts. It is precisely this self, which identifies itself with its own things, with its characteristic comfort zone, that precludes us from clearly discerning the direction we should proceed along.
We can finally notice that sentimental and mystical knowledge, which stands in contraposition to intellectual logic, is already viewed by some people as a way of retracing our steps to ancestral sub-consciousness. Going as far as wanting to suffocate it would be tantamount to simultaneously killing poetry, music and fantasy along with it.
That is not what we want: We simply want to shed light on it and discipline it, to avoid the risk that the ghosts might cross the threshold of consciousness at will.  Rather than a despotic master, the self will turn into a docile servant once we have learnt how to recognize and utilize it.
Discovering a centre
We all have a centre. Through the help of our method, that category of individuals will start from the beginning and carry out all the actions that are needed, by virtue purely of what is almost an automatism. Eventually, as a result of such daily training and psycho-plastic alignment, a normal individual will arise. That is so as the method, once actually implemented, leads through the easiest possible means to a truly authentic re-education of activity or — put it even better — of effective feasibility.
Moving from the aim to reality
Action has to necessarily be concrete and feasibly effective. Some people believe in an ideal in the same way that many persons believe in God, without however making an effort to bring it close to themselves, to feel it inside their own selves, to ensure that such ideal is going to enlighten their lives. They might even be sincere persons, and yet their faith is frigid and useless. Accordingly, they can never decide to pause for a while so as to contemplate their ideal, make it alive and feasible, and set their firm resolution on actualizing it.
It is not our intention here, however, to write down a method which is exclusively applicable to apathetic people. Every individual, however energetic and active he might happen to be, will discover some gainful advantage in this method. Every one of them will find, in the elimination of useless activities and a better arrangement of beneficial ones, both an element of conservation of time, which they might then pleasantly spend either in resting or in adding yet a new activity, and a higher quality of life.






 RESULTS
IDEAL     VITALITY
		                                        ESSENTIAL INDIVIDUALIZED BEING (the origin)
Summary
Achieving is not an accidental occurrence. Likewise, willing is the consequential confluence of two underlying elements: Possessing a valid ideal, and a sufficient reserve of mental energy.    We truly want something when we have the ability to canalize our energy towards an ideal. But in which manner are we going to define an ideal? There are two minds operating within man. Some label them the conscious and the unconscious. We prefer to define them as follows:
1. A limited ego (the "I" that is replete with mental chattering), which is also a programmed ego – the automatic mental pilot –, i.e. the totality of habits, the ostensible logic which makes up our daily being and which engrosses most of our time; 
2. A vaster mind, the essential inward being we get access to when we are being creative. We should use this larger mind as the departure point so as to define our ideals, our ultimate goals, in relation to the Universe.
Transcending the limited ego (which is also referred to by some as “the conscious mind”) and gaining access to the potentialities ensconced in the vaster mind (of one’s essential being) carries with them the meaning of developing a more complete state.
One’s limited ego is born out of its response to fears. We must learn how to overcome such fears in order to access a broader level. It is only at such level that the source of all our energies, too, is located.
PART ONE – Acquiring Control over one’s Own Life and developing Personal Magnetism
If you are pursuing some earnest goal in life, you ought to shelve useless things aside – C. Liddon.

This first part will assist you in:
Assuming control over your own life 
Getting rid of dispersions of energy 
Establishing connection with your essential individualized beings 
Developing, in a natural manner, what is termed “personal magnetism”, i.e. that subtle charm which lends a stronger impact to daily relationships.
How many thoughts does an average man entertain daily? Some people mention the number fifty thousand. How many things do we carry out within a day which, were we to view them at the end of that day, are utterly useless? Since we first wake up in the morning, our mind is set in motion, and hundreds of emotions and reflective thoughts cross our mind. Are they all useful? With four or five well-targeted actions per day, most people might be more successful than what they are at present. The uppermost level consists in “watching oneself act” without any interferences from a mental or emotional level operating at a furiously maddening pace.
In order to attain that goal, we are obliged to assume control over our own attention.  The human being who tastes fulfilment acts in a clear way: His thoughts move in one and the same direction, and the software of his mind software is at his service as opposed to being the guide in charge of him. He knows what he wants. His consciousness (understood in the sense of consciousness of his essential being) is the true master of his inward. Said in other words, such a person is ordinarily present to his own self and perceived by the other people as being “magnetic”, due to his ability to gather his vital energy together. When he acts, the action follows the thought at once, without any break.
Assuming control of one’s own attention = Thought ? Action
True and False Varieties of Personal Magnetism
NB: It is also possible to get pathological magnetic individuals who somehow manage to achieve successful results in life. If they are not in harmonious agreement with their true beings, however, they will always be dissatisfied. The type of person we are concerned with in this book, however, is the active and magnetically sound individual The active and magnetically healthy person is indeed the one who is the master of his own thoughts. When he creates them, he neatly creates them in his mind. His state of presence and awareness shapes up the basis, the blank screen onto which the mental images the active and magnetic individual is able to give attention to of his own accord are projected from time to time. He does not wear himself out, and might be compared to a natural magnet, because he follows the path of Nature.
The pathological magnetic person, by contrast, is the slave of his own thoughts, which emerge with great clarity in his mind but over which he exercises no genuine control. It is as though he is dominated by an obsession rather than dominating his own mind. He exhausts himself a lot in the attempt to develop a magnetic charge, and might be compared to a piece of iron which is electrically charged by a dynamo, that is, thanks to a continuous effort8. He attracts, it is true, but he ends up attracting things which do not truly represent what he wants.
What we are going to explain now is how to develop the man who is present to himself and active, and who is characterized by a healthy magnetism, which, by the way, is the more powerful and enduring form of magnetism, and the only one capable of producing satisfaction in life. 
This, in fact, is the man who will both attain his goals in life and be happy with himself. He will thus produce gold whether outside or inside himself. 
The first step which is required in order to bring about this man is to eliminate the encumbering burdens, the useless thoughts and the negative emotions, and to centralize one’s own self.
Avoiding dispersions
Whoever defeats his own self becomes invincible (Lao Tse)
Thought is a force. Thoughts are things. Energy follows in the footsteps of thought. Think of success and you will get success; think of misery and you will reap misery. Steering the course of your thought is the basis for steering the course of your affairs.
The practice which consists in elimination and in acquiring mastery over the mental and emotional dimensions, leads us to empty the ground of all useless sources of agitation and to plug  — so to speak — the gaps from which a large part  of a person’s nervous energy dissipates away. 
This concept is closely connected with the concept of attention, inasmuch as being voluntarily alert means no more than being voluntarily neglectful of useless or less useful urges 9. Its meaning is to voluntarily opt for one of many psychological facts which might be simultaneously actualized in one’s consciousness. 
STAY CONSCIOUS AND TARGET THE ACTION. 
Do not do - say - think – anything which is useless.
The mind operates all the time. The one who is always engrossed in useless things and is dissatisfied when the final curtain is drawn on his life is he who lets himself be led by the activity of his mind without being able to dominate it. Since the mind must be busy by fixing its sight upon some object, it tends to fix itself here and there by following the line which offers the least resistance and by dropping its attention as soon as it is on the verge of producing something which is wholesome but bound to require some straining effort. Whenever that happens, that kind of mind jumps to a different object, and from there passes onto yet a third one. Everything, whatever its nature, distracts the person with such a mind, and his senses are always protruded as if they consisted in five doors that are thrown wide open to each and every external vibration. The person concerned, therefore, ends up spending his day in a kind of unconscious state, and is only engrossed away from it by physiological needs or by habits which, due to their intrinsic nature, are similarly unconscious. 
Some people have asserted that the human mind has not ceased to be the mind of the caveman: The man whose aim is not to attain any goal, but to survive and preserve the “status quo”. Other people choose instead to speak of “comfort zone”. Our mind is forever inclined to be stuck in the same “comfort zone”, that is, to repeat what it already knows, purely because it is simpler for him.
The goal of the brain ought to be the one of adapting to the environment and working out creative solutions. If the brain is left to itself, however, it will after a while keep on repeating earlier patterns. Oftentimes, thoughts get reiterated even after they have ceased to be useful, nay, even thoughts which never proved to be useful are repeated in this fashion.
As for the person who derives satisfaction from life, he is able to assign a purpose to the work which the brain engages in. In order to pilot it, however, it is necessary to be conscious of the way in which the brain operates. Achieving results in our life is thus obligatorily dependent on us gradually attaining self-mastery 10. Doing so step by step is simpler. It is like developing a muscle, as recently proven by a number of researches (See, for instance, those of Prof. Mark Muraven from Albany University 11). Being the master of yourself, however, in no way entails that you should abandon your own personality. It is quite the reverse. What it means is to recover what we truly are. Our personality as forged by deranged thoughts is a false personality, since it operates outside our control. By relinquishing the thoughts that are left uncontrolled, we recover our true self, which would otherwise be drowned by the wasteful slag of worries and anxieties 12.
Do not let your thinking, therefore, roam about in the bleak regions of vacuous and incoherent fantasizing shorn of any beginning or final goal.
Make sure that you set yourself a target, whether in dealing with your own selves or with other people. Do not say anything other than what you have in mind to utter and which is truly useful or indispensable to verbalize. Avoid reacting aimlessly. A useful stratagem might consist in introducing a “conscious silence” between a question and the answer thereto. Lastly, if a conversation requires some kind of concatenation, one must always be careful not to reply too automatically. When you give expression to an idea, you ought to ponder the meaning of every word, and to avoid using more words than those needed to asseverate that idea 13. If we throw a glance at history, we will find that though successful people used to keep their acting well-focused, they always exerted a strong impression on the environments around them. As with an image drawn against a white background, their acting and being always seemed to be clear and with neat contours. 
We in fact perceive as "magnetic" a person whose way of acting is confident and coordinated, and who evinces self-mastery. These attributes of “self-conviction” have a tendency to coincide with the fact that the person we are facing expresses himself in a self-consistent manner at all levels of communication and throughout the different areas of his mind. Accordingly, he thinks only of one thing, motions the eyes and the hands in a harmoniously consistent fashion, and exudes self-coherence in every one of his acts. In order to achieve this result, however, one must not only learn how to gather focus, but also how to be present to his own self. 
The eye as the physiological key to attention
The eye is the organ with the deepest connection with mental focusing. The visual system represents a physiological key to orientation. The physical exercises we are soon going to explore will additionally lead you at once to improve your impact on other people by developing a captivating look 14. 
Exercise 3 – A simple exercise aimed at developing mental focusing is the following: Fix your gaze on a specific point in front of you, and then focus your attention on it without blinking your eyes. For how long are you going to hold your attention? A person endowed with the ability to gather his attention might go through ever longer periods of time as he practices this form of concentration. If you are able to fix your gaze upon a black point, you will have the capacity to create for yourself an interest in every thing. This is also an exercise which lends additional strength to personal magnetism. When it comes to one’s relationships with other people, this kind of reinforcement of strength is going to confer a special power on your person, in the light of the fact that your interlocutors will become unconsciously aware of your strength.

Exercise 4 – You can repeat the previous exercise by the mirror 15. It will make you more confident with other people. In this exercise, you should gaze at the point where the nose joins the forehead (at the level of the third eye).  Try and stay in the present: Be conscious of your body and your sensations. FEEL your being in the environment you find yourselves in. By pursuing this practice consistently, you will come to notice the development of a specific energy sensation. This exercise is also a sequitur to the immediately preceding one, which it reinforces as well.
Exercise 5 – Here is another small exercise by virtue of which you might be able to further develop your propensity for firm resolutions, while it also enables you to take a small break from too assiduous a work. Such work is alternated by it with a moment where the logical mind is granted some rest: You must look at one point on the wall, and imagine yourself capable of hurling some small arrows toward that point (Please refrain from blinking your eyes). After a short while, you will notice that this exercise helps you increase your will, and that it develops firmness of determination and self-confidence in life’s different situations.
Be relaxed when you carry out the exercises. Whatever is bereft of a clearly defined purpose is no more than sheer agitation. It is purely tension of no avail. As such, it belongs to the redundant being generated by a state of neglect. Neglect consists in lack of desire or absence of interest in anything. If we truly desire something, we decide to direct our mind towards it. Were such a tenet to be scrupulously adhered to, no further rule would essentially be of any benefit. However, it is hardly likely that an individual, whose wont is to abandon his self to the wave of spontaneous associations of ideas, will be able to restrain himself. He consequently needs a specific education.
Some people might raise the objection that preventing cerebral wandering can have the effect of disavowing the marked importance chance plays in relation to our discoveries. It is however precisely the act of ridding oneself of reiterated and impulsive ideas which enables the emergence of the gems of creativity. That way, you will discover, as a norm, that a direct connection with a purpose in life is more fertile than a casual one.
The Intended Goal

The criterion of usefulness, which is viewed as the sole and exclusive norm that regulates the activity of our brain, encompasses all the different professions and activities, including those which are called “optional”, such as music and arts. What we mean by useful is every thing that leads to an intended aim. 
We deem it important, after all, to highlight the fact that only the activity which is coordinated (in the sense of being disciplined) is able to lead to a practical result. Otherwise, if the activity does not fall into that category, we will become the victims of what we might term “law of the least resistance”, i.e. when we give our mind free rein to act, it will invariably seek to conserve energies. The law of the «least resistance» has the tendency of causing us to repeat the same thoughts every day, to always recall to our mind the same associations, and reiterate exactly the same observations. We are then contented with stereotypes and past experiences, without in any way reflecting over the fact that our ordinary activity is restricted within very narrow boundaries, beyond which fertile lands waiting only for someone to plough them are distended. Our mind is in truth capable of drawing infinite mental associations and devising infinite solutions to problems.
Developing one’s creative potential

Today’s world rewards whoever is able to come up with new solutions. Creativity is one of man’s natural gifts. The average man, however, is not free, simply because his mind is not free. Most of the times, in fact, the average man, though labouring under the illusion of acting of his own free will, follows some of the laws of least residence, which are respectively call obedience, imitation, association, and repetition.
Accordingly, in this book, and through this type of coaching, we will not only convoy you to success (provided you want it for yourselves), which shines on whoever has the ability of finding original and effective solutions, but also, at the same time, to true freedom, freedom, that is, from a series of automatic mechanisms which divert you from your own selves by clouding the geniality of your mind, and which rob you of your life and your time, to such an extent that it is legitimate to say, with regard to some people who have always spent their existence steeped in a “routine”, ‘Though he officially lived for eighty years, in reality they were some twenty years at most’ 16.
How does that come about?
Man manufactures with his own hands the chains which fetter him and despoil him of his own life. These chains are represented by his thoughts and habits, which not only subtract from him time, but take away his pleasure as well. That is so as this quality appears to be captive to some phantasmal future, though man is unable to recognize it in the present.
Having a supine attitude to social dictates, which is a trait that begins as a mere outward approach and eventually turns into a way of thinking, is one of the first causes of what we mentioned.   
Man, who might be otherwise solely dependent on the natural elements, begins to fill up his existence, to encage himself in a social mechanism which he cannot escape from other than by breaching certain conventions that are deemed indispensable to the reputation of his entire caste. Thereafter, he bonds himself to an enslaving career  which is determined by other people, and which tosses him this way or that way, while he remains at the mercy of someone else’s capricious whims. He subsequently attempts to confer on himself a “social position”, the preservation of which wears him out. Not happy with all of that, he then gives himself to some political party. Whichever side he turns to, modern man is encircled by a barbed wire fence he cannot trespass with impunity, without, that is, exposing his self to the risk of death. He lacks the freedom either to disengage or contradict himself. He is forever enjoined to carry a mask, armed with a stereotyped grin of either authority or submission. 
Social man is hypnotized, and a slave of conventions: He is subservient to habits. Being trapped in habits is something which obstructs happiness, not just because it lacks harmony, but because it prevents us from developing all our power and literally swallows our reality.
Breaking the bondage of habit is the first step we need in order to win our own freedom, and to be clear-sighted as well as far-sighted in life. There are men who live purely by habit: If you examine them for a while, you will come to realize that they are beings whose world is circumscribed to the corner of a most tiny corner, to a bunch of hothouse flowers which, as soon as they stretch their heads out of the glass window, fall down lifeless, destroyed by the robust gust of freedom.
So long as you do not break your self-confinement to habits, you will discover at the end of your life that you only watched the world from the window, without having actually lived life. That is true with regard to both the physical and the spiritual realms.
Habit is born in an instant. If we cross a road we had never walked on before, we will feel that road to be longer the first time around as compared to the return trip. The reason for it is that, on our way back, the road is already more familiar, whereupon we are less alert and less in search of new information; it likewise ensues from the said truth that when we live in automatic responses, time is as if swallowed, and years fly by in a matter of seconds.
If we desire to experience development, it is accordingly imperative that we should be able to exit the limiting boundaries.
Once we come to understand our true nature, we are also going to realize that there are gifts, thoughts, ideas which are deeply ours and which truly have their source in our innermost being.
We are indeed a unique combination of elements, and we must become conscious of that fact.
Originality, this primary norm which antedates any possible progress, is a cornerstone urging to be developed, away from any restricting framework, as an unshakeable purpose which the genuine adept of this method ought to cling to. Originality represents the exteriorization of the true power of the mind. The big enemy of this method is habit, that is, passive ideation, the door thrown wide open through which the whole procession of hackneyed ideas, uncontrolled opinions, futile statements, and useless wandering in which most of our days are lost, enter. 
Be original! This is the one fundamental rule. 
In order to succeed in being original, the following conditions are indispensable:
1. Eliminating whatever is of no avail, the habits which consume your mental energy and cause you to forever tread the same path out of fear of any new road;
2. Centralizing yourselves, connecting yourselves with that which represents the true essential being, and as such the fountainhead of every potentiality; 
3. Once that stage is reached, venturing into new situations, new thoughts, and new actions. That is unfailingly attained provided you refuse to submit to the mind’s automatic impulses, and provided you unfalteringly aspire to progress. If we have to go to a specific place, let us reach it by travelling on a different road. If we head for a restaurant, let us try a new dish we had never tasted before, and so on and so forth, constantly giving preference to what is novel.  
Searching for the new
As we have already indicated, inside us there is a force with a propensity for repetition. Man’s true growth, however, lies in coming to know and discovering the new in every moment and in every thing. We should struggle, in every moment of our life, to give pride of place to what is new and unprecedented over anything which has already been seen or tested before. Experiential variety is the true secret for prolonging life 17. Whoever stops developing closes himself up and diminishes his interaction with the environment. Be curious! Every successful person is curious. By multiplying the instances of interchange with the surrounding environment, the successful man will multiply his opportunities as well, because he is part and parcel of such environment. If we think in the same manner all the time, we shall invariably obtain the same things time and again, and nothing will ever change in our lives.
You ought to regularly ask yourselves:
How many new people I have come to know this week?
Which new thing have I discovered?
Key elements to which attention should be drawn
The unity and clarity of the purpose
Compliance with the aforesaid first rule, which enjoins the elimination of the mentally superfluous, presupposes such a prompt perceptiveness as to enable us to realize at once that we are engaging in something that is uselessly dispersive, thereby leading us to take remedial steps at once.
This task will only be made easier if the following peremptory norm is borne in mind: 
You must always organize activity for the sake of a demarcated aim.
Put differently: You ought to know which practical and immediate aim might be secured by your activities, whereupon you will have to canalize your activity towards such aim. What we mean by “aim” is a result which ought to reasonably consist in self-improvement, in an increment of power. Whenever you act, you should be aware of what you want. It is only then that you can move from being merely active to be effective.
Knowing how to aim at a specific target and to precisely delineate it  
Let us now speak of a problem that is frequently encountered: When one works towards accomplishing a purpose which is not immediately tangible, when, for example, one is studying a particular issue, what occurs is that, due to the concatenation of ideas, although we do not actually exit the ambit of that subject-matter, we nevertheless enlarge its scope to such an extent that we can no longer perceive its demarcating boundaries: What is accessory turns into the main aspect, and it in turn creates further ancillary investigations, and so on and so forth. What is occasioned thereby is a new kind of cerebral vagrancy which scholars are not cognizant of. They lack awareness of such cerebral roving because, though they believe they are deepening their devotion to the particular subject they are with busy with, they are in actual fact dilating and thus scattering it. That is also what often happens to the person who navigates through the Internet without any precise purpose; one page summons another one, and, at the end of the day, nothing has been done and nothing has been achieved. 
It is therefore necessary to know how to circumscribe the field of one’s activity. No better means to accomplish this requirement exists than to set out beforehand the issues that one is going to deal with within a fixed time, accompanying that step by the firm resolution to tackle each of those issues exhaustively. By resorting to our method, after all, we will gain a huge surplus of free time we can then devote to supererogatory researches.
What is in fact the origin of so many agitating states and so many useless speeches? It is the fact they are detached, in other words, that they are not carried out so as to serve a specific purpose. If, by contrast, we set a particular aim for ourselves, however negligible it might be, so long as it is a clear and immediate aim, our actions and our thoughts will naturally bind themselves together in a chain-like arrangement, causally related to one another, and, as a result, all of them will occupy a useful place.
We would like to draw the learner’s attention to the necessity that any such purpose should be quite clear. In order for it to have that quality, it is necessary for one’s will to intervene:
In order to analyze the problem, its usefulness or otherwise, and the means which are suited to its solution;
In order to resolve on the fact that such volition will not give up the study until and unless a solution to the problem has been reached.
Distinguishing between indispensable and superfluous Activities 
Prior to us setting out to implement any thing, we are always given the chance to pause and consider whether it is indispensable (a categorical duty) or redundant. We must not accept everything which the superfluous has to offer us. We should limit ourselves to accepting only what conforms to our personal line of conduct, and can thus avail our objectives.
Indispensable and Useful


MUST BE DONE
Superfluous yet in line with our purposes 
SHOULD BE DONE (PROVIDED TIME ALLOWS THAT) 18
Indispensable without being useful


A RE-EXAMINATION IS NECESSARY: Why is it in fact indispensable?
Superfluous and out of touch with our purposes  
MUST BE AVOIDED
Many things which are seemingly indispensable are in actual fact redundant, and a great number of them are not worth the straining effort which is required to bring them about. We should not forget that, after all, while there are several things one cannot do, there is nothing which one is disabled from «not doing». This warning applies to all those people who, in order to justify themselves, refer to an irresistible impulse, only for them to later regret the fact they have acted recklessly. We come back in this regard to our main thesis, that is, the necessity of smashing automatism, by judging whether satisfaction has not been already experienced, and if experiencing it again in the same forms is truly worth the effort.
We must ask ourselves: What kind of satisfaction I am seeking? Have I already tasted it in the past? Would it not be possible for me to rather discover something new?
The instantaneous or periodical erasure of the superfluous aspects of our activity is a necessity, just as the daily or periodical disposal of material waste is a primary need of home economics. This operation is capable of encompassing not only the elimination of the activities which have become useless because they are automatic and accordingly deprived of meaning, be it pleasant or unpleasant, but also the moral eradication of passions, resentful grudges, useless memories, which represent a real cumbersome load we drag along for several years, in the absence, that is, of a deliberate effort to rid ourselves thereof 19.
Each one of us must pose the following question to his self: Why am I still retaining these emotions? Do I not want to let go of them?
Let us reiterate the point. When, by virtue of the automatism of mental images or due to the concatenation of events, a certain problem, a certain desire to act, arises in us, the first step we should take is to quickly analyze whether the problem ought to be unavoidably solved (in which event one resorts to pre-ideation), or whether, conversely, it merely consists in an arbitrary problem or fact, in which case the pros and cons of giving effect to it will have to be weighed up. Assuming the decision we reach is a negative one, we should put an end to any thought about it; as for the scenario where an affirmative answer is given, the problem has to be tackled. Useless acts, words and gestures are all generated by carelessness, and by lack of a genuine interest in and sincere desire for any thing. These acts are carried out under the influence of a bleak, colourless state of mind; whereas voluntary acts are those which are determined by a neatly defined psychological coloration.
Being intelligent
Always look for the shortest route to arrive at the result. 
When you have finally resolved upon doing a particular thing, you should pause once more, this time in order to study the manner in which you are going to accomplish it with the minimum possible effort. This truly means to be intelligent. You must therefore ready yourself, both materially and morally, in such a way that all the surrounding circumstances favour your engagement. From a material point of view, you should pay heed to your physical disposition and to the tools or persons who are required in order for your purpose to materialize. From a moral perspective, you will have to clear out the way of all useless thoughts. “Discerning intelligently” signifies that one must be vigilant, and not blocked by opinions or automatic reflexes.
Attaining mastery over the Mind and the Body 
Not only we engage in useless acts, but we also perpetuate useless physical tensions which devour energy from us.
A general and usual defect in our body, which is an endless source of the dissipation of forces, is occasioned by the exaggerated tension of our muscles and nerves in the course of the day. This tension, which is unknown to animals in a state of rest or to small children, is the product of our artificial civilization and the vices associated with education. It is an aspect that must be rectified at every cost, whence the significance of relaxation.
It is impossible to attain the concentration of one’s ideas without the simultaneous concentration of one’s physical movements: «The concentration of consciousness and the one of movements, the spreading of ideas and that of motions, go hand in hand» 20. Knowing how to relax through the suspension of useless movements, therefore, is an aid to focusing one’s attention 21. 
Overcoming continuous tension
The exaggerated tension of the muscles and the nervous system might possibly depend on the usual expectant attention of civilized man. As is well known, in the state of expectant attention the muscles and nerves take up a posture of preventative adaptation to the action which is going to be carried out or the stance which is going to be adopted. Due to one’s muscular memory, and often to past experiences as well, our muscles are unconsciously and unnecessarily strained. This empty tension is precisely the one we ought to avoid the most.
Avoiding it requires, first and foremost, that we should ascertain, now and then, the extent to which our muscles and nerves are strained, and accordingly try to immediately relax both of them, that is, to set them in that state of rest in which they are plunged at the time of being deeply and calmly asleep.
By sitting, walking, etc, we are almost always in a state of rigidity, which is a state that entails a huge waste of forces, forces that might otherwise be channelled in a more beneficially productive manner.
Exercises aimed at Relaxation and at Muscular Control
Exercise 6 – General Relaxation 
In order to implement this exercise, you should lie down on the bed and let go of yourself at once; alternatively, you should let yourself be carried by the chair, and rest on either support, the bed or the chair, as if you were an empty bag. After that, you must review each and every muscle in your body, starting with the muscles of the face (especially the eyes, the mouth and the tongue), and then go down bit by bit to your arms, the chest, the back and the legs. You must lift one arm and let it fall down suddenly, as if the joints of the shoulder, the elbow, the wrist and the phalanges were merely the strings of a net happening to interlink parts of your upper limbs. You should then do the same with your lower limbs. Check and eliminate the tension which is so common by the cervical and dorsal vertebrae, and make sure you feel your spinal chord as something loose and mobile, as if it were a limp chord, rather than as a column made of iron. Relax your chest muscles, which are likewise unconsciously pulled at first, in an even manner. Muscular relaxation additionally has a powerful psychosomatic impact, and it reduces the incidence of psychosomatic diseases.

Exercise 7 – Speaking
When you speak, you should speak with the diaphragm rather than with the muscles of the throat. Never raise your voice, as that is after all the best way to dominate emotion and display self-control.
Exercise 8 - Walking
When you walk, you should make sure that you only feel the weight of your body on the feet, and not on the entire body. 
Exercise 9 – How to read and listen
Whenever you are studying or listening to a speech or to some music, do not study or listen with your muscles, your spine, your shoulders or your face, but rather with the brain, which alone must stay alive. Put it in different words, you must relax the useless muscles. By so doing, you will realize that your attention, and your effectiveness, too, will be greater. You will in fact learn more, and strain yourselves less.
All the scientific studies concur on the following point: To reproduce in the neurons the relaxation associated with a half-asleep condition has the import of “regenerating” both body and brain, mind and muscles. Prof. Clifford Saron from the Center for Mind and Brain at the California University has noticed that, over a number of days, those people who practiced relaxation mentally became ever more rapid, were able to maintain concentration more easily and for longer periods, were less anxious, had greater awareness of their emotions, and knew how to manage them better 22.
Prof. Benson, in his book “The Relaxation Response”, shows us how a daily relaxation ranging from ten to fifteen minutes might cause a positive reduction in psychosomatic diseases.
The self and tensions
Relaxation, both the physical and the psychological types, helps one eliminate the permanent or predominant attention directed onto his own self, which is activated inappropriately due to the fact that such a self is not related by a bond of necessity to anything extrinsic, such as a situation to exploit or an idea to pursue.
We must learn from animals and children the art of fully relaxing all those muscles of the body which momentarily have no role to play.
It is indeed possible to work in a relaxed state. Some of the scholars have referred to a “state of flux”. In order for us to understand the idea, it is enough to remind ourselves of the motionlessness bordering on ecstasy which seizes us during the scant moments of intense psychological work. What is required for the sake of fully comprehending the meaning of our precept is to remember the perfect coordination of movements (and the resultant elimination of any move that is alien to the purpose to be accomplished) by which the intelligent manual worker carries out his job. The physical tension which constantly endures in the adult man when he is in a wakeful state corresponds to an equivalent amount of wasted energy. Once the learner grasps the entire scope of the method, he will discern that the prior orientation 23 towards having an interest in the work to be implemented will then turn into the surest condition for attaining perfect relaxation. In other words, it will become exceptionally easy to work with the utmost efficiency while at the same being perfectly relaxed.
Small tics or tensions
In addition, over and above the “formal” relaxation exercises which should be repeated with such assiduous diligence as to ensure that they turn into an unconscious habit of our body, the main rule is encapsulated in the following: Avoid all useless movements. Every movement has to have a purpose. When you are studying, refrain from tapping your fingers on the table, do not strike the ground with your feet, do not swing either your feet or your head, avoid twisting your facial muscles, and do away with humming a tune or whistling unconsciously, whether in a low voice or by following some music in your mind. Absolute silence ought to reign in an active spirit. If you happen to move without any useful motive, try and go back to a state of calm at once. Some kind of motionless posture will prove to be of the greatest avail to you, especially when it comes to subjugating emotion. For the sake thereof, you should start learning how to carry out gestures slowly and yet precisely, even when you are in a hurry.
Every small tic is also, at the same time, a form of dispersion of energy. 
The exercise we are now going to describe addresses your unconscious mind and re-establishes an energy-related balance. 
Whenever you become aware of an emotion or a small tic, you should motion a bit with your hand, which is held open towards the body almost as if to brush it (such small movements are termed “steps”). This motion should be directed downwardly, as though it was sweeping emotionalism away. As you carry out that motion, you should keep your attention focused on the sensation which is established between your body and the palm of the hand. These steps have the effect of bringing about an energy balance. You should additionally take some circular “steps” over your belly. The key of stress, anxiety and tension is in fact situated in that area. It is here, indeed, that we find a true second brain, tasked with important functions which cast a reflection over the entire organism. It is an area characterized by a high density of nervous fibres. It is further incumbent on us to know that, though the intestine only hosts one tenth of the brain’s neurons, it nevertheless operates in an autonomous fashion, helps the entrenchment of the memories that are linked to emotions, and fulfils an essential role in signalling joy and pain. The intestine, in short, is the seat of a second brain. In the belly, we also come across some autonomous neuronal tissue. It is no coincidence that the intestine cells produce 95% of serotonin, which is the neurotransmitter of wellbeing 24. The intestine releases serotonin as a result of external stimuli, such as food being caused to enter it, but also as a result of sounds or colours, or as a by-product of precisely the “step-based” methodology. Finally, for the sake of relaxation, you might also embark on more comprehensive “steps”. Such “steps” are carried out by bringing your hands to the level of the forehead, by opening them and by slowly letting them slide down the body, their palms facing the body, while you give attention to the sensations which correspond to the different areas. The last-mentioned method is quite effective and can also be made to accompany the abovementioned species of relaxation. It will take you to an ever increasing self-mastery, and to a state of more extensive serenity.
Concentration
All the prescriptive norms on relaxing useless tensions might be synthetically summed up in the under-stated sentence:
Be present to what you do. Never do two things at the same time.
One might even add the following caveat:
Never host two different thoughts simultaneously.
Unlike computers, the human mind is not multitasking. It can only externalize its full power if it lets only one mental program operate at any given time. 

Few are those who are capable of reading half a page without their minds interpolating two or three extraneous thoughts which are unrelated to the subject-matter of what is being read. Few are those who, in the course of a dialogue, have the ability to identify themselves with their interlocutors while the latter are busy talking  
We must learn how to be conscious and present in whatever we do.  
We come across a similar concept in Zen philosophy. This concept has its usefulness in everyday life.
When the Zen manager reads a letter, he truly reads a letter, and when he takes part in a meeting, he truly participates in the meeting, and so on.
As for the non-Zen manager, when he reads a letter he is thinking of the meeting, when he attends the meeting he is ruminating about what he is going to do thereafter, and so on and so forth.
The former is obviously endowed with greater effectiveness than the latter.
Even Raja Yoga, which is the Royal Yoga, draws a lot of attention to this concept of the benefit entailed by the knowledge of how to avoid dispersions.
We already know that the thought is a force, and that whatever is not applied to the thing which one has to focus his thought on, is accordingly a wasted strength that has been dissipated forever.
“When you carry out some physical action — you will waste away your strength and your thought so long as you are thinking of something radically different. Before you plunge a needle into a cushion, you would have projected outside your being the thought, in essence, a plan for thrusting this needle. This plan is a force. You should direct this force to your body, which is an instrument for it. You must avoid, at the time when your hand is going to infix this needle, mixing this plan with any other project, the aim of which is to accomplish something else. Were you to do otherwise, you would be dispatching your force — or at least attempting to dispatch it— to two directions at the same time. Every impatient thought or act, no matter how small, will cost you a loss of strength without letting you realize any profit. If sometimes you feel tired of walking, while your brain has worked, tortured itself, and elaborated some projects, you should then banish away all these thoughts and gather your whole intelligence, your whole attention, your whole strength, on your legs, whereupon you would be surprised to feel vigour coming back and exhaustion disappearing”.
This law equally applies to all of one’s acts in life. You must train yourselves to concentrate on one act only, and you must train yourselves to pour the plenitude of your intelligence on the entirety of your acts. You ought to train yourselves to put your entire thought in a single action and prevent this thought from getting dispersed in something else. You should also train yourselves to direct the full reservoir of your energies to your own speech as you talk, to your particular ability when you are engaging in some manual undertaking, to your voice when you are singing, to your fingers when you will require from them the accomplishment of some delicate work, to all your organs and all the functions of your being which you might get the chance of putting into effect.
Whoever wants to have an idea of the power if thought, for instance the power it exercises on organic functions, he should try, immediately upon finishing his lunch, to lie down on a couch and let the following sentence ring in his mind: “I have a good digestion. I digest perfectly”. Let him try and see with the eyes of his mind, without ever deflecting such thought, his stomach at the stage when the gastric juices dent the food that has been ingested a short while earlier, and are converging to it, when it carries out its peristaltic movements, when the kilogram of food moves into the intestine, etc. By doing so, he will truly realize that his digestion is going to take place within a shorter time than usual.
If we nurture the power to localize our strengths on one act only, we will likewise nurture the faculty of shifting our entire intelligence from one issue to the other. In other words, we might in that way shift our mental side from one boring worry to a pleasure, and forget some painful affliction in the balsam of a cheerful work.
There are different methods on how to develop concentration. Some writers suggest (and whisper in great secret) a number of exercises to facilitate concentration, such as fingering the beads of a rosary, counting from 100 to 1, turning the thumbs over one another, etc. 
These exercises are certainly useful, and they can act as a reinforcing element. Having said that, it is nonetheless essential to start from what is part of everyday life. An intelligent individual will start by being in what he is constantly plunged. He will already begin to concentrate while he is reading a nice book, analysing any given subject or person, or mentally probing a problem which interests him.
What one has to take care of is learning how to fix his attention on one SINGLE issue or problem for a progressively longer time. Some of the relevant exercises are set out here under.
Exercise 10 – Bending the forearm 
Bend the forearm over your arm until you manage to touch your shoulder with the hand. Carry out the movement slowly, that is, by drawing your full attention to what you are busy with. Such an exercise will only be implemented properly on condition that, during its implementation, the adept’s mind avoids getting distracted even for a moment 25. The brain must supply the movement with sufficient impulse, while attention has to follow this motion until its full completion. Once you have mastered the proper implementation of this exercise, you should repeat it for a gradually larger number of times, 2, 3, 4, 5 times. Take turns between the two arms; and then carry out the same exercise, this time by bending your leg over the thigh 26. 
NB – At the beginning, all the exercises have to be short, as untrained people cannot expect to achieve too long a concentration.
Exercise 11 – The finger. 
Sit down comfortably, and place one hand over the knee, keeping the hand close save for the middle finger, which you are going to stretch towards the thigh. Thereafter, raise and lower the finger slowly, for 10, 15, 20 times. The point behind the exercise is never to swerve one’s attention away from the oscillating finger. Such fully focused attention must then be developed further by carrying out this exercise for increasingly longer spans 27.
Exercise 12 – Closed fists
Sit down, and stretch your closed fists over the table. Thereafter, open one finger at a time, most slowly, while focusing your firm attention on the motion traced by your finger. You will then open the fingers of the one hand firstly and then those of the other one, and finally the corresponding fingers of both hands simultaneously, e.g. the two index fingers, the two middle fingers, the two ring fingers and so on. Let us repeat ourselves: In this exercise, as well as in all of them, the point is not to carry out the movement which is set out in its description. What matters is to force the thought to follow the movement without any interruption whatsoever, so as to train the mind to focus on a given issue with an ever longer concentration.
Exercise 13 – Touch 
Take any object, such as a pencil, a paperweight, or a watch. This exercise consists in mentally defining the exact sensation which touching the object produces in you: Its form, the sensation of weight or colour, its hardness, and so on. In order to make the exercise even simpler, you should begin by defining the sensations associated with the examined object one by one; you might subsequently reach the point where you are able (and that only comes with difficulty and on the back of a long training) to progress onto the simultaneous and comprehensive demarcation of all the touch-related sensations 28. NB – Do not exhaust yourselves in the effort to extend any exercise excessively. At the beginning, you should feel satisfied so long as an exercise has been carried out perfectly, albeit for an extremely short time. Rather than seeking to extend the duration of such exercise on the same day, it would be more fittingly convenient to move to another exercise. An exercise is deemed to have been implemented perfectly so long as the brain’s attention has not been interrupted. It is thus clear that one cannot simultaneously implement an exercise properly while at the same time worrying as to whether the exercise is being carried out well. As soon as the mind poses itself that question, the exercise is ipso facto brought to an end thereby. Accordingly, the question, ‘Have I implemented this exercise correctly?’, will always be, and by its nature can never fail to be, a retrospective one, that is, a question relating to an exercise that has already been completed. Based on the foregoing, when you set out to work on a particular exercise, you should focus your thought on the exercise itself rather than on «the implementation of the exercise». The adept is warmly exhorted to ponder this sentence well, as the whole secret of successful accomplishment of the method is ensconced within its folds.
On a daily basis
Try and be present to what you do. Remove your thought from either the past or the future. Be in what you are busy doing.
Too many people move with excessive ease from one thought to  another, and show interest, almost simultaneously, in two such mutually heterogeneous issues that we might essentially assert that they are entertaining both of them together. They are clearly two abortions which are destined to be thrown into the immensely vast limbo of foetal thoughts. Sometimes one thought destroys another, only to be annihilated by the one immediately succeeding it. 
Sure, one comes across a spontaneous generation of ideas which would be wrong to ban, since the so-called “lateral” thoughts are almost invariably pregnant with valuable findings. We merely want here to raise a barrier against the harmful habit of switching abruptly from one thought to another, for then we would be allowing ourselves to be distracted by every triviality. We have to master the art of suddenly deflecting the mind away from any idea or subject-matter. As for creativity, we are now going to explain how it should be developed. It is precisely by blocking thoughts at some points in time that we might be able to produce geniality.
Developing geniality, originality and mental power
Relaxation, the state of mental void, and the technique of the light which has been laid out here above, represent in truth the essential path for developing the quality of originality we have just spoken about in the preceding pages of this work. The first studies on the subject which have been conducted in recent times, precisely in 1978 by the psychologist Colin Martindale from Maine University, had already shown that there are two stages to creativity, namely, inspiration and elaboration. When his “guinea pigs” (writers placed under electroencephalographic monitoring) were busy creating, the cerebral activity was markedly reduced (= in a state of rest). That is the moment of inspiration. For the most creative among them, the electroencephalogram used to record an even higher figure of alpha waves.  It is essential, in order to understand how that occurs, to differentiate between two parts which are present inside our mind: 

1. Linear part (which corresponds to many of our conscious processes, and is ruled by a Newtonian logic founded upon the analysis of REALITY)
2. Non-linear part of the mind (which corresponds to many of our unconscious processes, is especially active during moments of rest or access to our own selves, and is governed by a quantum logic based on the generation of POTENTIALITY).
Linear Part or the Part of Habitual Consciousness:
The part of our mind which is normally conscious is the linear part thereof. Usually, this part reasons in a logical fashion within the confines of a single map.
It is used in order to:
Understand
decide
remember (short-term memory)
The conscious part, however, is affected by certain problems, chief among them its “limited capacity”. It accordingly ensues that this part is:
Easily distracted
easily confused
It finds it difficult to deal with too many data at the same time: A famous essay penned by Miller has proven how our conscious mind might tackle, at the most, a peak of 5 to 9 different pieces of information simultaneously. That explains why we recommend that one should concentrate his mind on one issue at the time.
The other constituent element of our mind is the unconscious part. This part is activated by accessing our essential being. It corresponds to the 
“Quantum” part of the mind
A characteristic aspect of the quantum part of the mind (which corresponds to unconscious processes and is activated by gaining access to our essential inward being) is that it is capable of encompassing more than one map simultaneously, and possesses the intrinsic ability to establish powerful connections. It allows one’s reasoning process to unfold itself on a multiplicity of planes at one and the same time. In order for this reasoning to be effective, it must take place unconsciously.
Central connections
Massive capacity, in need of minimal effort
We cannot gain direct knowledge of what it is busy doing without blocking it 
The quantum part of the mind intervenes more often than what we might think. The truth is in fact that we lack consciousness of most of what we do: The majority of our perceptions are after all automatic in nature, and automatic perception is actualized by our unconscious.
"The neurons involved when we feel something become active even prior to actually receiving any sensory input". Cf. Jeff Hawkins, “On Intelligence” (2004).
Switching on the quantum part of our mind denotes the reawakening of that part of our mind which is capable of giving birth to new connections. The geniality which that part of your being possesses might well equal the capacity of the most proficient exponent of your particular profession. The fact success does not shine upon you in equal measure is due to the fact that you lack the know-how on how to go about activating it.  The applicable procedure is what we are setting out here under:
First Phase: The work carried out by the unconscious cannot be undertaken in a vacuum. Its activity, in fact, requires some nourishment. It is in need of primary material it can work on. First of all, therefore, you must supply it with the appropriate material. The alleged «originality» of ideas is precisely the emanation of an intelligent effort «to think over» them. The first essential ingredient is then, obviously, to have something one can think over. All the geniuses have been tireless workers. They have taken upon themselves, almost instinctively, the burden of an enforced task. It is this which has supplied their sub-conscious with the nutriment it needed to feed on. An important component of this stage is your conscious focusing on whatever you do.
First Phase = Attention and conscious Focalizing 
That is however insufficient: As in every other creation, even of a material type, one has to have both form and content. The content is provided by the preparatory work on the strength of which the largest possible quantity of raw material is readied, while the form derives from the unconscious which elaborates such material. 

Second Phase: Preparation demands attention, whereas, by contrast, ideation needs relaxation. No crystal is formed inside a glass of pure water; if, however, you insert in it a salt until the point of saturation is reached, shaking it, boiling it, in short, doing all that is necessary in order to saturate a liquid, you will obtain the conditions that are suitable to the process of crystallization. For that to occur, however, you must then allow your water to rest. Life is a rhythmic oscillation of activity and rest. The rest of the mind is not, however, a form of idleness, contrary to what some people think; it is rather the means we have at our disposal to «digest», to activate our quantum functioning and extract from what is formless that organic and living substance which is represented by a genial thought. It is known to all and sundry that genial discoveries have been made by their authors at the time they were thinking about them the least: As they were taking a walk, while they were conferring with one another or reading a newspaper, etc. A genial thought explodes, so to speak, out of the blue. But does that mean it springs out of nowhere? Not so. As we are aware, genial men were devotees of work. They were, however, workers who knew how to rest.
Second Phase = Unconscious focusing
The world is brimful of eager workers, who nevertheless never rise above mediocrity, because they never know how to “digest” what they swallow. That is why relaxation and being in a state of mental void are important. You must learn, therefore, to let the mind rest the way you are able to do with the body. You must learn how to create some vacuum inside your spirit by “sweeping up” all thoughts, irritants, and plans. Chances to relax one’s spirit spontaneously arise every day, and they might even be deliberately set up. When you go to your office or come back from it, as you are waiting for a person, during a meal, in the course of work itself, there are always opportunities to relax.  Psycho-physical relaxation and the technique of the light are powerful tools in this connection.
The body and the mind that work incessantly cannot but work badly. The mind, exactly like a race horse, must be trained to carry out gradually more strenuous efforts, subject to the proviso that such efforts should be interspersed by periods of complete rest. That way, the brain will increase its performance step by step, precisely as the horse learns to progressively increase its speed. 
The following point thus ensues: We must reflect with all our energies on the issues which are in need of attention, but we must also fully and unconditionally rest as soon as our vision begins to get blurred. This alternation of effort and relaxation represents the secret behind creative work.
Many people make the mistake of never thinking in a really energetic way, of failing to activate their mind. As for another group of people, they fall into the error of never giving themselves a true rest.  What results in both such cases is the impossibility of developing any elevated mental power. When a question is posed to you, you should, by contrast, learn to concentrate on it the fire of your mind. You ought to banish any extraneous thought away. When you judge yourself to be in need of some rest, vacate from your mind, in exactly the same fashion, the problem you were previously bent on exploring. It is only in this way that you will soon discover yourselves to be gifted with renewed energies.
The important creations are always the fruit of strict mental discipline. The technique to practice such discipline might be summarized in this precept which Manzoni highlighted: “Think over”, that is: Think about the target of your meditation and do not abandon the primary for the sake of the accessory. Every sequence of thoughts must give rise to a self-contained closed circle, as opposed to forming a chain with neither beginning nor end. Putting it even better, every series of thoughts must gather around a dominant question, the solution to which is adopted as one’s purpose. 
The man who is prey to his thoughts occasionally has some ideas, which lack however orientation to the right direction.
Mental balance and the relinquishment of worries represent the dual precondition for the productive exteriorization of geniality and intuition. The very first effort must accordingly aim at achieving emotional self-control, i.e. at reacting calmly to the small irritations of everyday life. The first thing to do when you wake up in the morning is to say to yourselves:
“Regardless of whatever might happen, I want to stay calm, in charge of myself, and in a state of balance. I am appointing my person as my own guard, and finding my centre in my own self”.
As you persevere and develop self-consciousness and self-presencing, you will eventually come to develop a harmonious state. 
Having achieved that, your mind might then be led to create through the medium of specific methodologies, and every new creation of your mind will empower you to progress. The following example illustrates the said method:
Exercise 14 – Beginning to activate one’s creative mind
This exercise is based on the power of light. It has the effect of taking the neuron to its highest degree of activation. It might help you develop creativity around your purposeful aim. The light might even act as a very potent tool to increase your mental potential. You must look at a light (max. 75 watts), at a distance of approximately 1.50 meters, for 30 seconds, in so doing thinking of the objective of yours you wish to accomplish. Close your eyes and observe the way the residual trace of light develops until it eventually disappears (The whole process should take up around three minutes. You will notice towards the end the appearance of a luminous halo around). Now open your eyes 29, and conclude by writing down whatever springs to your mind.
Even a physical relaxation as described has a pronounced benefit. The extent of its usefulness will be proportionate to how much it is then going to be followed by spiritual relaxation, that is, by the gradual relinquishment of every thought and every preoccupation, by the perfect atony of the terminal sympathetic nerves which are of no avail to our purpose, by the discontinuance of our cogitative faculty, until, at the end of the road, we finally become insensitive tamquam ac cadaver (“exactly like a corpse”). This cerebral relaxation has been practiced, as a most useful instrument, by the most famous men in history.  Napoleon used to say that every evening you have to put down worries as you take off your clothes, “you should close the drawings of your brain and place your thoughts under lock and key”. As for Emmanuel Kant, he usually recommended one to “think of the wall” and, once such result had been achieved, to “think about the thought of the wall”.
Available methods to interrupt thoughts
Thoughts represent an activity which is engaged in by the conscious mind, by one’s logical part.  They cannot accordingly be eliminated through a logical route. Since the notion of direct voluntary oblivion is thus a psychological absurdity, all that can be done in order to force our thoughts and passions into silence is to deliberately fix our attention on a state of pleasant calm 30 and learn to concentrate.  Here are some stratagems which naturally offer themselves as suggested ways of attaining the said purpose: They range from engrossment in the activity of opening and closing one’s eyes in a dark place, to the mental depiction of a tranquil and inanimate landscape, from the mental observation of a column of breath which comes out of our nostrils and perpetuates itself ad infinitum to, finally, the particularly interesting device of continuously tracing the sign of the mathematical infinite, which must be persisted with without ever deflecting the mind once, not even for a moment.  
Exercise 15 – The infinite. Here we have an exercise which is ostensibly easy, whereas in actual fact it is quite hard to bring it about correctly. It consists in mentally drawing, in an uninterrupted fashion and for gradually longer time spans, the mathematical sign for the infinite, which is similar to a reclining 8 (?). You should accordingly picture yourselves seeing this immensely huge sign as a luminous one protruding out of a dark background. You must then, beginning from any point whatsoever, follow the continuing curve, without ever taking off the eyes of the mind. This exercise has the ability to lead one to be more present, and not to be excessively stuck in a sensory system (= not to be excessively visual, audial or kinaesthetic), choosing instead to preserve a centralized and powerful state 31.
Ten minutes of daily physical and psychological rest, if possible spent while lying on the bed, in some dark and silent environment, will refresh the body and the spirit as much as one hour of normal sleep would be able to do. In order to master the practice of this art, however, we need to make a daily effort. We need, in other words, to consciously awaken our unconscious side. Through the medium of a sufficient dose of commitment, one might eventually learn how to detach himself completely, regardless of which place he might happen to be in. Few people know the true silence of the spirit. You should make use of silence whenever nature affords you the chance of tasting it. Becoming accustomed to relaxation leads a person to relish life with increased intensity. What it means is that pleasures are renewed for him more frequently and acquire greater liveliness, as a natural consequence of the law in terms of which activity represents a pleasing experience only when it excites faculties which have been turned wholesome by rest 32.
In the event that we desire a further development of this quality, the fact that thoughts are things, and that their emanation is escorted by a release of strength, implies that in order to accumulate personal magnetism it is necessary not only to know how to think, that is, to be able to regulate the course of thoughts at one’s own convenience, but also, at some moments, to know how not to think of anything.
Provided that we succeed, whether for a longer or a shorter period, in fully stopping our thoughts from issuing forth, it might be likely that the repairing of our strengths is going to materialize far more quickly. The prior mastery of such a requisite is however demanded.
The ability not to think about anything is significantly different from absent-mindedness. In almost every instance, we unwittingly shift from one idea to another. This state of incessant motion might in some cases be compared to a pathological condition. The person who operates in that fashion is never in possession of sufficient strength to enable him to project a vigorous light onto some important thought. We must, by contrast, think not in an automatic but in a voluntary manner, with our maximum possible intensity. However, in order to subsequently recover by rest from the unavoidable loss of energy resultant on such an effort, we must be then be acquainted with how we can avoid thinking about anything.
How to accomplish a mental void
How does one, however, manage to think of nothing? It is an extremely demanding task indeed. Beyond our conscious thoughts, in fact, we also have an unceasing, unconscious thought, a worry of a certain kind which always accompanies our activity as if it were some kind of muted orchestra. Today this background drone might consist, for instance, in thinking about a certain material or moral undertaking, whereas tomorrow it might take the form of an apprehensiveness regarding your health, and the following day the idea of going on a possible trip. We must take good care to observe that it is by no means necessary that this worry should be etched in your mind in a clear shape. That is not a must. It is enough if it lends a special tone to your entire activity, or, we should rather say, your sensibility. This endless unconscious thought resembles a definite hue which colours the field of your mental side.
There is no doubt that, in order for one to truly manage how not to think about anything, it is necessary to first learn how to rid oneself even of this thought-non-thought, how to expunge it as if one might erase through a rubber the marks left by chalk on a blackboard, and how to set oneself in a neutral, indifferent state, the one which the Greeks used to term ataraxia.
Durville summarises, in the following statement, the features of the training which one has to obligatorily go through so as to reach such a state step by step:
“One must withdraw into his room, covered by shade, away from any noise, and take all the necessary precautions not be disturbed. He should then comfortably sit on a couch or lie on a bed, with his eyelids effortlessly lowered on the eyeballs, and with his fists half-closed. Thereafter, he should relaxes his muscles fully, and make a mental effort in the most comprehensive manner and with the greatest calm, firstly in order to gather in himself the external forces, and later so as the arrest the emission of thoughts. The mouth ought to be kept closed without tightening the lips, while breathing must only occur through the nose. The entire field of consciousness must be shut off and, as soon as it springs up, one must drive back any thought, whatever it might be” 33.
In short, you must create in your own selves what the therapists which practice the art of suggestion refer to by the name “zero-ideation”, that is, the total absence of ideas. In order to assist yourselves in the process, you must try and fix your thought on the idea of black, and imagine you are “seeing something black”, a black point, a black spot, or an entirely black wall. In case some extraneous thought interposes itself, chase it away through a brief deliberate effort, and then go back to perceiving the black ... something black ... think of nothing other than the black. To recapitulate, the procedure unfolds itself through three different stages:
1. Secluding oneself
2. Relaxing
3. Halting one’s cerebral work or, to put it better, breaking up every conscious cerebral undertaking.
Total zero-ideation is something rare. So long as the mind is awake, its mechanism is in fact usually orientated in one or two ways: It is either directed at a fixed idea, or else it jumps from one idea to another in accordance with laws of association. What is important to do is to shatter logical thought, that is, the representation which images arouse in us. To take an example, “seeing something black” and nothing other than the black is not an easy task, and it is not necessary after all. One person might find it easier to actualize a different mono-ideation, e.g. the idea of a flowing river, of a rope which goes on ad infinitum and which our thought ensures it will unceasingly roll out, and so on. Yet another individual might accomplish the purpose more successfully by “denying his attention to any conscious thought”, and by driving ideas away from his self with the same calm persistence by which a horse would swing its tail in order to chase out the flies.
The one who wants to go even further might seek to reach the absolute zero. It consists in the consciousness of the void, of the zero (0) state, namely, what Plato used to call the idea of all ideas 34. Our life, by contrast, is constantly pulled by the opposites which are symbolized by the pair plus (+) and minus (-). Such an essential underlying sapience can only possibly materialize beyond our thoughts, as the latter screen us from perceiving reality. 
To sum up, if we want to accomplish some immediately attainable practical purpose, we would say that our constant concern must consist in the art of utilizing our own forces all together, by directing their whole strength towards a single point. Ours must be a genuine war strategy: The thought, the mental energy, must not be found scattered across too vast a space, for otherwise no propelling force and no countering power might possibly be deployed. If, on the other hand, we manage to gather our energies in a single bundle, we might successfully resist a formidable collision, or even be able to launch in turn an attack of ours against some fortress.
Being Present - The relativity of everything
It is now time to move to some reflections which, though broader, do not thereby cease to be predominantly practical. The underlying concept we would like to introduce you to here is the extent to which the preceding exercises might also represent exercises aiming at the reintegration and reclaiming of our own selves. We cannot, indeed, be truly happy or establish any real life plan so long as we are not connected to our own selves and to reality. Why do we speak of re-integration? The answer to that question is found in yet another question: To which extent are we actually dis-integrated? The dispersion we have dealt with in the previous pages of this book is in fact a dis-integration. How many times we are in fact unable to carry out what we would like to do? How much are we really present to our own selves in the course of a single day? How many times is our mind burrowed by thoughts or ideas which are neither desired nor useful? On how many occasions do we fail to be truly our own selves?  
In actual fact, human freedom (the so-called free will) does exist, and yet is extremely circumscribed. Usually, man is in essence ir-responsible until and unless he becomes conscious of what he does.

The key to every thing, to be able to "ride one’s destiny”, lies in being conscious. That entails having consciousness of one’s own being. A first essential step along this path is learning to remove useless thoughts, as we explained before. In taking such a first step, we will achieve a lot, since we will shelve aside part of what encumbers us. Once we have removed thoughts, in fact, all that is then left is our own selves. Wanting to travel on this path of re-integration carries the meaning of naturally acquiring a higher degree of self-mastery and power over the different situations. This is an existential itinerary which can only derive from an inward choice, and from an urge which the person concerned feels inside him. Therefore, the essential aspect in respect of every one of us is to reach the point at which he is able to create within himself a state enabling him to choose, to decide, to act with a view to attaining his specific purposes. 
Exercise 28: I am
Let us simply try and acquire consciousness of our being. Let us pronounce inside us the words "I am". Which is the sensation that is thereby engendered in your body? Accepting the "I am" by detaching it from all the ideas that are linked to it and which do not belong to it, is the foundation for developing any capacity. Sometimes we say, ‘I am a doctor’, ‘I am a student’, and so on. However, our authentic reality comes before any term which we might suffix to the verb “I am”. If we realize that, we will likewise realize that all possibilities lie in front of us and are simply choices to be made.
This exercise, which is exclusively linguistic in nature, will prepare you for the next stage in which even the linguistic quality of life is going to be transcended, inasmuch as our true essential inward identity is neither verbal nor is a self in the first place, as it is rather a profound being.
Being present to our own selves is not a philosophical attitude: It is a practical reality. It consists, in fact, in a mental state which is technically ascertainable, and which is characterized by the establishment of a different relationship with the surrounding reality, with our own selves, and with time. Self-presencing might be attained through a series of exercises which facilitate attention and presence in every single moment of our existence. The average man loves or does not love, makes an effort in life or gives up on the basis of his mental illusions, without becoming aware of the fact that his feelings are linked to extrinsic influences or to the state of health of his physical organs.
Too often we have a tendency to react rather than to act, thereby letting ourselves be dragged along by life’s torrential stream.
The techniques we are teaching represent a road for learning how to be our own selves, as well as to recover our inner power precisely where it is truly located 35.
Exercises based on the Reference Point 
Exercise 16 – The focal point.
You should imagine a point, a tiny point in front of you. Make it as small as possible, and then focus your attention on it for some ten seconds. Let us call this a "focal point". This point stands for the direction taken by our attention. In order to achieve the greatest possible results, you have to be able to guide your own attention.
Exercise 17 – Projection of the point.
Immediately after you have completed the preceding exercise, you should then look at yourselves in the mirror and imagine yourselves projecting the focal point onto the image in the mirror, precisely in the spot between the eyes. Thereafter, you simply say, ‘I now decide to set out on the path to my own self.’ Close your eyes, move away from the mirror, and do not think about what you said until the next day.
Exercise 18 – Being present at the mirror.
Let go of any thought about the focal point. Now you should merely gaze at your own selves in the mirror without blinking your eyes. Look intensely at yourselves between the eyes. By carrying out this exercise, you will come to notice a number of different sensations, and at some points you will lose self-consciousness. When that occurs, try to regain presence through the means of sensory attention.

Exercise 19 – Constant awareness of one part of the body
Keep a continuous awareness of one part of your body (such as one hand). Over a period of time, this exercise might be accompanied by focusing one’s attention on one of your feet (if possible the one located on the opposite side).
The aim of these exercises is to start “remembering ourselves”. The goal is the further development of Presence as a path to freedom. Another interesting exercise consists in being conscious of your breathing while you are eating.
Exercise 20 – Awareness of one’s breathing while eating.
You should now extend your concentration to your breathing while you are busy eating. You must be conscious of the fact that you are eating. 
Exercise 21 – Awareness of one’s speech.
Now you must further extend your consciousness to your speech. Listen to yourselves talking. Be aware of the fact you are talking. This particular exercise has a visible effect even on the people around you. If you speak while you LISTEN TO YOURSELVES SPEAKING, your voice will come out clearer and neater.
These exercises which are centred on direct sensory perception will gift you greater awareness of your body, and will gradually free you from a whole array of psychosomatic reactions. Although the body is the foundation of physical actions, many people confuse the body’s physiological reactions with its emotional responses. In some instances, indeed, some of these persons go as far as turning other people into the victims of such physiological reactions. For instance, a person suffering from stomach ache becomes irritated with other individuals. We must of necessity distinguish physiological reactions from mental responses, as otherwise the former would turn into hooks which will no longer allow us to live serenely. Having consciousness of the side which is responsible for bodily reactions is further useful as a tool to get rid of one’s excessive mental dialogues.
The disappearance of one’s limiting inner dialogue 
The mind’s useless self-talk is one of the main forms of energy dispersion. These internal dialogues are often mere instances of internalization of commands and words that have been heard in one’s young age or from other persons: “Take care to …”, “do not do …”, etc.
So long as our mind is replete with these inward dialogues, we will never be able to be free. No doubt the eradication of all useless thoughts is not easy to accomplish, but it is at least easy to reduce them by no more than 10%, as that alone will cause you to live better. The exercises based on bodily awareness guide our attention to a dimension of ourselves which is more directly sensory and more far-reaching in its effectiveness. As for stilling our internal dialogue, it helps us conquer the castle of words which erect our negative beliefs, our restricting thoughts. Bit by bit, we will understand that they are no more than automatic reflexes and words, and we will establish contact with a more comprehensive inner dimension. Even such phrases as “I can’t do it”, or “I am unable to bring it off”, will progressively shed their meaning, since we will be more present in the reality and less so in our own thoughts. At that stage, we will then begin to align our actions with our decisions more and more. By proceeding along such a path, in addition, we will eventually reach the point where we will no longer have sensory preferences which are lived out in an automatic fashion. Some people see all the time, others are constantly audial persons, etc. By attaining presence, we will gradually reach a state of balance and “loosening” of any mental automatism 36.

THE PROCESS OF SUBORDINATING AUTOMATISM TO CONSCIOUSNESS – The process of self-development passes through the prerequisite of establishing a total alignment between the decisions one takes and the resultant actions. Every person is in fact capable of noticing that inside his being there are two elements which inspire actions, two primal sources from which decisions gush out. On the one there is conscience, judiciousness, reason, reflection; on the other hand we find automatism. It is this destructive automatism which we are going to reduce progressively as we move on with the implementation of this method. A concrete illustration will clearly exemplify the interplay between these two distinct centres of one’s personality: A young student sits down at his desk early in the morning, so as to devote himself to some abstract philosophical problem which cannot distract him. Outside, the sun is shining brightly and, from the half-open window, he is reached, along with delightful buffets of fresh air, by the echo of plentiful joyous noises. Our lad is vividly tempted to put his vexing book aside, and go out to meet some friends. However, this movement engendered by automatism, this “impulse”, encounters opposition on the part of the youth’s “conscience”: The date of the exam, with its  overloaded schedule, is approaching, and only an unbending commitment to study will enable him to absorb what can empower him to pass it. At that point, the “internal battle” from which the student’s choice of behaviour ultimately depends, is going to break out. If softening automatism is carried out by us in a methodical fashion, by making an effort to first dominate the insignificant impulses and later to move to the attempt of dominating the most significant ones, while at the same time seeking to be present to ourselves, that will progressively ensure the prompt and smooth subjugation of automatism to the representations made by thoughtful reflection, and will further guarantee the development of a central principle in man. It consists in regaining control of our selves, and of gestures and movements which would otherwise be guided by the subconscious.
SELF-REMEMBRANCE Being present to one’s own self is the straight path one has to tread in order to rise above automatism and unconsciousness, and accordingly soar to the higher levels in which we might find the totality of our potentialities, both the conscious and the unconscious one, to be within our reach. 
A tangible example which embodies the opposite reality is the situation where we make a promise, either to ourselves or to other people, and then, only a few seconds afterwards, we have already consigned it to oblivion. From a technical point of view, what happens in such an instance is that we fall into a “trance”, that is, into an automatic mode of reacting. Another such example is provided by a woman who promises herself not to indulge in excessive consumption of food any longer. A short while after formulating that promise to herself, she walks past a confectionery, goes in, and buys a chocolate sweet which she proceeds to partake of at once. Technically speaking, this woman has suffered 
1. Amnesia of the promise she had made to herself;
2. Regression to some moment in her childhood when the chocolate sweet was for her the source of great satisfaction. 
In other words, this woman has lived in a trance without being “present to her self”.
Hypnotherapy might offer some benefit in cases such as hers, but it remains no more than a partial remedy: We must rather learn how to be outside trances in each and every moment of our life without any external aid.
This is precisely what the technique of the “presence” helps us develop. The key to be concrete lies in maintaining a direct sensory reference. It is then that reality appears to be livelier, and it is then that we become capable of truly making decisions. It is only at that point, therefore, that we might become able to determine our purposes and bring them to fruition.
The average man is "devoured by the mental side", i.e. he is caught in worries, cogitations and automatic reflexes. Yet a deeper basis does exist. This basis consists in a state in which we perceive reality as it truly is. We might draw a simile with the way we feel during a trip to a foreign country. In such a context, in fact, we are usually more present than is the case when we are in our own motherland: Sounds appear to us to be stronger and sensations more real. We are more ourselves because of the fact that the new environment stimulates our sensory aspect. When people speak of man utilizing only a part of his true potential, they have this in mind.
Pressing forward entails a transformation of one’s own being which simplifies living and makes it more immediate, as it becomes more conscious. Naturally, personal power, too, expands, as that course leads man to the only point where the springhead of such power is situated, namely, his own self.
Being centralized, being present to ourselves, also leads one to understand the relativity of every thing and every fact. We must make the following saying by the Arab sage part of our existential lexicon: — Have you conquered the earthly dominium? Do not rejoice about that, as it is nothing. Have you lost the worldly dominium? Do not grieve, as it is nothing. Everything in the world passes away and is nothing. — This concept must be used to benefit to us, not in order to give up acting, but rather in order to act more freely, and to endure on firmer grounds fortune’s wrongs and caprices. Whoever wants to look back and remember his anxieties, or the worries he experienced as a result of some fact on which his destiny in life seemed at that time to depend, will realize that his life has almost always unfolded itself independently of the outcome of that fact. He will realize therefore that being so concerned with it was undeserving of the effort.
Exercise 22 – Reviewing life
Let us cast a look back at our life, but this time as if inverted. Let us become conscious of the fact that choices we had deemed obligatory are in reality choices which were based more on fear and the desire to survive than on a goal to be attained.  
Exercise 23 – The mirror 
Let us face a mirror, and merely look at ourselves. Let us see us the way we are, by keeping presence to our body as long as possible. Thereafter, let us lower the eyes. If any thought or idea descends on us, let us lift our eyes and send such thought or idea back to the image in the mirror. We should maintain an extreme degree of self-presencing throughout. Let us further realize that what we are facing ahead of is no more than a projection 37 .
The truth is that many things which are deemed indispensable, and for the sake of which one struggles hard, or which are either coveted or cause us to feel regretful for lacking or losing them, are indeed superfluities. Most men live by generally doing what they do not want to do, by visiting and receiving people they do not want to see, by saying what they do not think, by spending time and money in what they would not like to spend them on 38. In so doing, they burden themselves with exhausting tasks and futile nuisances which do not avail them at all in accomplishing their own destinies. Several men wear themselves out by engaging in works which are exceedingly useless. The interest we inject into things that are of no concern whatsoever to us is but misplaced interest. Getting heated up, enervating ourselves in an attempt to defend or attack opinions which are foreign to our occupations, is to waste our time and energy, and accordingly dry up the source of calm which is an indispensable requirement of our success.
Let us try and be present to our own selves. We should begin with our sensory reality, via the exercises set out here above, and move ahead further from there. We must learn how to turn this attitude of self-presencing into our hallmark even when we deal with interpersonal relationships. 
Overcoming the encumbrance of one’s own ego
Greatness makes the body heavy (Tao Te King)
What is especially important to avoid is excessive self-esteem and the exaggerated inner dialogue every one of us engages with his own self. We are, period. We are not all these internal dialogues of ours. Even the word “self” is an inappropriate one for defining our reality, which is indeed far vaster than this word. Focusing excessive attention on one’s own limited “ego” is what consumes mental energy the most. Hyper-attention which is directed at our own selves prevents us from seeing the world. Many people strut in this world with a superb demeanour and with pride, as if they deemed themselves phenomenal creatures. The egocentric idea becomes excessively infixed in many of us whenever we turn ourselves into the centre of the world, the focus of every glance, the goal of every attention. It is an utterly ridiculous concept, given that every man thinks the same of his own self. We must accordingly remind ourselves properly that we are like a drop of water, a grain of sand, a spark in a conflagration. Our specific importance is limited to the portion of space occupied by our body in the Universe, and is never too much of a thing, whichever way we turn it to 39. It is therefore absurd to pretend that we also occupy a place in somebody else’s soul, or demand gratitude, affection, or what is even worse, recollection and loyalty after our death, when our body will have returned to the nothingness it had just now exited for a short while only. 
True Man advances by Retreating / He is always present by Staying outside / By not turning himself into the centre he attains perfection (Tao Te king)
We ought to be objective with our own selves and our external circumstances as they factually exist in time and space, so as for us to perceive our minimal significance while at the same time realizing that precisely due to that fact we are able to do a lot. The state of permanent attention which is predominantly focused on our own selves and circumstances does in fact engender a pronounced neglect of external things, a neglect which accrues to our detriment. The accessing key to true success is to be found instead in being attentive to what lies outside us. Paying less heed to our egos, and doing so on an ongoing basis, allows us in fact to be more open and benevolent towards other people. Through that, we might finally be able to listen to what they are saying, understanding what they are feeling (without of course letting ourselves becoming involved), realizing the value of every person and thereby improving our social relationships. Many people, indeed, believe, out of pride, that they are able to make other persons act the way they want, but the truth is that the key to successful social relationships lies only in listening to them, in truly interacting with them. 
We are free 
The sense of being free is a harder prize to conquer. It is that sense of freedom which being present ultimately leads one to.  Man is a social animal — and that is absolutely true —, but he is also, socially and, even more so, historically useless, if he refuses to change in order to avoid moving out of the coordinates which the society he lives in has drawn up. 
Acting in the same way as the rest is a norm which is founded on fear (Tao Te King)
Nurturing one’s own originality is every person’s first imperative. This originality, however, cannot be attained save by fighting against the societal microcosm and macrocosm which are inclined to absorb us.  By that, we are preaching neither some kind of anarchy nor any incentive to rebellion. Our intention is rather to stress that passive man, the man in the grip of habits, is a useless being, a mere number whose disappearance matter nothing. No man exists who, in some respect, is not to an extent original. Discovering one’s own originality, cultivating it, increasing it, is the sole duty that each one of us has vis-à-vis the world. If accomplishing that necessitates one to rebel against the environment, daring is a must. Yes, the narrow society, one’s entourage, might despise us, but the future is going to prove us right.
We should often remind ourselves of our smallness. We should bear that in mind in the midst of our pleasures and grieves, our business deals and games, as well as amid love and death. On the one hand, this resolute conviction in our negligibility will render us less selfish, by making us acquainted with the extent of foolishness and ignorance which causes one to pretend that every person should be concerned with our affairs, whereas, on the other hand, it will make us more healthily selfish by conferring on us the coolness which is needed for the realization of the most arduous tasks. 
What is more is that we will also learn how to avoid that excessive earnestness which represents one of the major stumbles on the path to enjoying life and developing a more open-minded vision of it.
Hardly, if at all, does the destiny of the world depend on the self of any one of us. As far as the world is concerned, we are in fact nothing. We should then pay the world back with the same coinage. That way, we will first and foremost learn how to strip every fact of its emotional content, by reducing it to its stark objective nature. Due to the fact that an idea is devoid of any consequence unless it is coloured by sentiment either in black or in pink, we must keep on training the spirit to welcome ideas in a calm way. When emotion is added to some fact or some thought, in fact, it stirs up in us violent responses which hinder action rather than favouring its explication, exactly the way the gas obstructs the march of the engine whenever it is compressed too much.
Acting on the emotions
Apart from our mental side, namely, the mind’s incessant chattering, the inward radio broadcasts which we are endlessly forced to endure from it, the other main cause that might prevent us from progressing, therefore, is emotion.
Emotion consists in the loss of mental balance. It is a form of inebriation in a true sense of the word. Emotion is a degenerate form of energy. In order to expend the totality of our forces, we must have mastery on ourselves and thus consume the least possible number of emotions. We must realize that emotion, every emotion, distances us from the perception of reality, and that it is only within reality that we need to build things.
Reality is emotion-free. It only contains objective data. 
You must learn to react externally only to a limited extent whenever you are plunged inside the small inevitable agitations which daily life imposes: Move slowly, breathe deeply, and think that your legs have become heavy. If on some occasions feigning anger might prove to be beneficial for the attainment of your objective, being truly angry is always harmful.
In his inward, the experienced man is hard to be influenced. He might be able to show himself convinced, to great effect even when he is not. That is even more pronounced if we pay heed to the way in which those who are truly sure of themselves behave. Such a quality helps one become a good actor, one who is a confident master in his own game.
You should learn the art of immediately forgetting the small nuisances, the negligible forms of opposition which are a necessary part of life’s infinite harmony, and without which life would be felt to be tasteless as a result of showing an excessively beautiful aspect of its self.
Preoccupation
All these emotional excitements are part of the more general phenomenon of anxieties and worries.
Worry is to the engine of the brain what ashes and wastage are to the other types of machines, i.e. a noxious material which has to be cleared out. The process which is needed to uproot worry consists in refusing to accept it as an item in the list of human faculties. After such operation of extirpating surgery is over, man will feel healthier and more vigorous.
Preoccupation is not just — as the word might outwardly like to indicate — a phenomenon of emotional foreseeing, i.e. one of negative premonition about the future, since it might also be of a different kind. Preoccupation is derived partly from our experiences, by which we mean the accumulated pile of prejudices and fears which lies in the depths of our unconscious, and partly from, yet again, the constitutional form of emotionalism. No effort to cure such weakness will ever be excessive. Eradicating worry has the connotation of clarifying our life, and of placing our self in a well defined relationship with the Universe around us from the dual viewpoint of time and space.
Exercise 24 – An initial method of confronting worry, when it merely consists in a negative emotional premonition concerning the future, is to imagine ourselves, by contrast, successfully overcoming the obstacle. This exercise possesses the additional benefit of creating a positive behavioural model which will display the tendency of becoming actualized. 
Exercise 25 - One method which causes one to overcome worry consists in arriving, through a feverish series of analytical investigations, at discovering the cause of such preoccupation. Once such cause is found, all that is left to do is to subject it to pre-ideation, in other terms, to planning all the possible causal concatenations, whereafter the phenomenon loses its character of being a preoccupation altogether 40.
Exercise 26 – An additional method one might possibly resort to, whenever worry is devoid of a clear underlying motive, consists in what follows: While facing the mirror, we should look into our right eye and conjure up a state of worry for a few seconds (we will notice thereby that the look is going to lose focus slightly, after which we regain the ability of seeing well). Let us then repeat the exercise with the left eye, and let us then pursue the exercise in this fashion for a number of times. We will realize after a short while that emotionalism (which is a kind of “trance”) has ceased to exist, and that only our ability to think logically remains. 
As we are going to see later in this book, our system is inspired by a continuous healthy preparation, a fact which no longer leaves ant room for morbid worrying.
We need to move from “preoccupation” to “preparation”, and to know, of course, the limits which fate traces.  
When, in fact, one is convinced that he is doing something in the best possible manner, at the most appropriate time, and without having left any stone unturned in pursuit of such purpose, preoccupation turns into sheer superfluity and into an absurdity.
The strain of working is significantly less when the ground has already been emptied of such features of emotionalism as might be represented by worry and anger, this latter, too, having lost the reason for its existence. The result yielded by the method is thus the following: Exploiting every situation through the least effort, so as to extract from it the maximum possible advantage at the cost of the lowest detriment 41. This cornerstone has to be assimilated by your understanding and reiterated to the point that it turns into a natural habit.
Such method accustoms the spirit to exit the misty clouds of that activity which is made to drift away and lose its way owing to one’s uncontrolled emotion and the dominance by one’s mental side. It does so by diminishing effort further on the strength of the fact that any action which is undertaken in accordance with it need not be repeated, since it is extremely rare for one pursuing it to make a mistake. 
Exercise 27 – This is an exercise that assists one in centralizing himself and eliminating negative emotions. The exercise which is set out here under is going to develop your presence, and at the same time help you centralize yourself for the sake of pursuing your goals 42.
Stage 1: Think of your aim.
Stage 2: Begin by acquiring consciousness, alternately, of the right and the left parts of your head (at the rhythm of one second)

Keep on doing it with that part, backward and forward, a few more times (at the same rhythm)

Conclude the exercise by attaining alternate consciousness of the upper and lower parts of your head (A e B)
You should now take and break, and then, if you so wish, you might start again.
Anger
Another element which poisons our activity is anger, that is, one’s vindictive excitation. Under the impulse of this evil adviser, our acts are almost always censurable, illogical, and disproportionate, and they are nearly invariably followed by regret. What we suggest here is never to act under the impulse of anger, which is after all a bestial rather than a human passion. Anger is an excess of self-defence, and the unlawful offspring of the survival instinct, hence of fear. If we become fully convinced of the close relationship between the two of them, we will be careful to avoid ever showing ourselves to be angry. The choleric man, after all, makes a positive impact only the first time one comes across him, but that is soon followed by people laughing behind his back, with clear knowledge of the fact that the choleric person’s decisions are seldom final.
A sure-proof means to avoid outbursts of anger as much as possible is to always be connected with our fellow human beings on the basis of calm and clearly defined relationships. The rules which are needed to achieve that objective can be subsumed under a single one: To uniformly treat every one, whether higher or lower, superior or subordinate, as our equal. We must respect the individuality of every person, and reflect over the truth that the world is beautiful precisely because it offers variety, and that it is quite likely that the person to whom you show aversion to harbours the same feeling towards you while having the undivided merit that he does not openly disclose it. In every person, even those people who are lower and children, you ought to respect the quality which is intrinsic to man (his ”humanness”) 43. Do not turn your profession, your social position, your religious or political faith, into the centre of your being. One has to be first a man, and only then an officer or a sectarian adept. You should never speak ill of any person: This is indeed a “selfish” rule one ought to take into account. Do not express your opinion unless you have been solicited to do so. As for whatever you have no interest in, it is incumbent on you to leave the unwelcome role of the propagandist to somebody else.
It is necessary, at this juncture, for you to clearly understand what is being put forward herein. The philosophical reflections on the uselessness of anger and emotion must be firmly etched in our mind, in order for us to acquire a calm temperament. When, however, emotion supervenes, it is hardly possible to subjugate it by addressing it through nicely reasoned arguments. That which, however, differentiates the man who works on his own self from the average human being, is the length to which emotion is held back, and the manner in which it is managed. Emotion is a species of folly, or else a temporary intoxication of our nerves. One does not reason with lunatics or drunkards. What one has to do in this context is to let the nerves be restored to their normal state. The problem, here, resembles the one of bringing back to rest the strings of an instrument that has been violently plucked.  Two procedures exist for that purpose. Through the first such procedure, which is the more natural one of the two, all that one has to do is to let vibrations turn progressively shorter until complete stasis is reached. Rest is something which materializes without fail. It is only a question of time as to when it will set in. Based on that, one procedure (which is actually a form of not proceeding to do anything) for quenching emotion, is let it flow out of one’s own self by acquiring conscious awareness of one’s body and, if necessary, by carrying out some breathing exercises, whereupon the nervous fluid is dispersed at every moment, until quiet is reached. One single warning must however be necessarily be borne in mind in such instance: Do not accumulate the motivational causes which might keep the emotional state alive.
If we unflinchingly keep on striking the same chords, the string can never stop vibrating 44. Essentially speaking, what must be done is to negate the emotional influence which tends to reproduce itself, or, expressed it in different words, to passively let it flow out. Due to the well known correlation between the physical and the psychological levels, the problem is solved by plunging oneself in a state of physical stillness, by for instance keeping silent, secluding oneself, or refraining from moving.
There is, secondly, a violent procedure, which consists in stopping the vibration at once by striking the string with some external object. At a psychological level, what we would get is a reversibility of the relevant emotion. In other terms, the emotion might be halted abruptly, thereby producing in us a nervous «shock» of a different kind. Once more, on account of the selfsame principle of physical-psychological correlation, we might be able to induce in us a violent physical emotion: Jumping, racing, pinching or slapping ourselves, taking a shower, a scratching gesture or whatever. 
Intuitively, if one smashes an object due to the impulse of an emotion (which is what occurs to several people), that generates in him a physical-psychological reaction. It is a physical one because of the effort, and the noise produced by the corpus which is smashed; and it also psychological, by virtue of the state of surprise which soon descends, together with the feeling of remorse over the self-inflicted harm.
From a psychological perspective, there are people who react by unleashing a temperamental outburst against some scapegoat, by resorting to listening to some stormy music, or by walking out, meeting people, doing something harmlessly eccentric etc. There are better and more suitable methods available, however. The under-mentioned exercise is quite useful in this connection:
Exercise 28 – Offload emotions through movement. Identify the point in your body where you experience the emotion (anger or worry). Bring the eyes to a point of ocular convergence. Let the emotion guide your body in the way it moves and shakes. Go on doing that until the emotion is vanished. At that point, verbalize the new, emotion-free state, look at a light for thirty seconds, and repeat the name assigned to the regained emotion of calm. Thereafter, close your eyes for about a minute and a half. 
The preceding exercise will further help you redirect the energy to new and more useful areas 45. You must constantly keep on thinking that emotion is but concentrated energy having the sole need of being re-orientated. The best option consists in fact in channelling energy to the task of briskly tackling the pending matters which demand rapid decisions and which, in normal conditions, one does not dare to complete. 
This is the cure founded on emotional release. It is however necessary to continuously persuade oneself that anger and fear are the two most powerful generative sources of the dispersion of forces. We are thus enjoined to uproot anger and fear from our innermost core, as we would then suddenly attain a vast spiritual calm.
It is not enough that we should distance such twin emotions from us. We must move further from there to the actual denial of their existence in the soul of an educated, sensible and virile person.
What we need to acquire, for us to act well, is to gain, on a perpetual basis, the imperturbable equanimity of a profound spirit even if such spirit might superficially appear to be agitated. One can conversely witness a spirit which, though ostensibly imperturbable, deep inside is restless.
In order to attain the said goal, presence is necessary.
A healthy attention to ourselves will enable us to get rid of these foolish manias, by forcing us to focus our attentiveness on other people only to the extent that such undertaking might prove useful to us. Such a salutary attention to ourselves will additionally allow us to free our beings of the whole spectrum of prejudices, dead weights, and false sentimentalities which make us lose sight of the goal. Remember to study each and every case on its own, and to apply to it those procedures which are suitable to the specific case in question, rather than the ones that are suggested by theoretical prejudgment.
Haste and Anxieties 
The avid desire destroys the possibility of movement (Tao Te King)
Get rid of haste. If you plan your activity in advance and manage to be present in the moment, you will successfully find the time to do every thing. You should likewise eliminate the anxieties associated with expectation: If you are unable to wait, then steer your activity towards something else; if, instead, you can wait, there is no benefit in getting restlessly agitated.
You must finally stop mulling over the same ideas, the same situations. You should avoid visiting places which you have already seen hundreds of times before, or listening to music you know by heart. Try to always search for novelties if you want your life to have nice fullness. In that manner you will gain such a huge saving of time that the person who has never experienced this systematic process of elimination would never even suspect. In the event that useless ideas were to surface in your minds because of psychological automatism, you should strive to chase them away by denying their existence or by clinging to different ideas.
Concerning emotions in general
In order to alleviate or avoid the often very unpleasant consequences of a violent emotion, a fit of rage, a strong adversity, a displeasing event, a fear or even too vivid a joy, you should withdraw into your rooms and lie down on the bed in a perfectly horizontal position, after having loosened your clothes by your waist and your chest so as to avert any possible obstruction to your breathing.
While in this position, you should practice some respiratory exercises, insisting on breathing through the abdomen as much as possible. Doing that produces a massage of the solar plexus, which, as we know, is the nervous centre of emotions. You must be conscious of your breathing.
The said massage will excite the depressed nervous centres, while respiration supplies them with vital force. Thereupon, nervous balance will be re-established, following either one or several sessions.
We accordingly wish to mention here under an additional exercise, which is specially combined with a view to carrying out an energetic massage of the solar plexus, as that has a propensity to infuse calm. This exercise requires a bit of practice. It follows that, in order to bring it off properly, you should implement it sometimes when you are in a state of calm. 
1° phase. – Lie down on the back of your body, free from any irritating piece of clothing.
2° phase. – Carry out, though the nose, an enforced abdominal breathing, and hold the breath you have inhaled thereby.
3° phase. – Let the air inhaled by the abdomen pass into the chest by brusquely lifting the diaphragm, while you simultaneously expand your chest so as to welcome in air.
4° phase. — Cause the inhaled air to move back to the abdominal wall, only for you to immediately push it back into your chest wall, 5 or 6 times in succession in a rapid manner, while always taking care to hold your breath well.
5° phase. – Exhale vigorously through the mouth.
6° phase. – Take some breaths for rest.
You should implement this particular exercise 7 times in a row, with the fully clear intention, during the inhaling phase, to absorb a large deal of vital force, and, during the alternative movements, to drive away the ideas produced by your resentful emotion and to re-establish the unsettled nervous balance.
The massage which is produced by enveloping the organs of the solar plexus is quite energetic. Soon you will feel a warm heat which originates at the level of the solar plexus and then extends into every direction, thereby spreading around a sensation of calm and wellbeing, without your will needing to intervene at all. The solar plexus is additionally essential to the development of what is termed “personal magnetism”.
Controlling Emotions and personal Magnetism
What we call “personal magnetism” is a sensation which is profoundly connected to your emotional self-control. Regardless of the scientific justifications of the phenomenon (an effective above-average non-verbal communication, energy and so on), one or more persons who are placed at a short distance from you (up to a maximum of five meters) feel the impact exercised by your person to a greater or a lesser extent: This gets transmitted without you being consciously aware of it. The intention, the desire to exercise a special influence on one individual from that pair, will channel most of your irradiation in his direction.  Yet such irradiation operates in accordance with a way which reflects your own psycho-physical balance. If it is potent but disorderly, such irradiation will cause perturbing irritation; whereas, if you happen to be calm and full of serenity, but at the same time devoid of power of accumulation, or with an inadequate externalizing tension, your influence will prove to be sweet but hardly pronounced. 
Perfect self-control is required.
If you do not learn how to dominate your emotions, you will be amenable to experiencing continuous losses of magnetism, which will have the effect of weakening your personal influence to a degree commensurate with the extent of any such loss. However little you might feel impressed, you will then experience a typical constriction in our epigastric area, precisely by the solar plexus, which is, on the other hand, the very centre from which influence radiates.
One reaches the eventual point at which he has mastery over his own self, and he is capable of retaining an imperturbable serenity even in the most awfully pathetic circumstances, by beginning to subjugate, through the help of a small effort, the emotionalism which everyday impulses generate.
An enormous consumption of strength escorts the fulfilment of emotional impulses.
Do not argue therefore in an animated manner. Do not debate. Listen calmly when something is being communicated to you, and do not express your opinion unless you cannot possibly do without it.  Do not allow yourself to be compelled into speaking against your will.
It is by beginning to dominate a slight motion of impatience that one ultimately soars to the degree at which he can keep his impassive cool even in the face of serious provocations. Feeling disappointed, irritated or enervated occasions certain physiognomic expressions, gestures and vocal outbursts, which we must ban from our selves at every cost. 
Some additional minor stratagems 
1) A first tactic which helps control small emotional impulses, and which is the opposite of dispersing force, is to become conscious of this desire, extract from it the essence of its unrestricted physical force, and then slowly inhale air, during a time span of eight seconds approximately, with all the force which your lungs are able to muster. In the course of giving effect to this procedure, each one of you should mentally repeat the following formula to his self: “I consciously take into my possession the full and entire force of this desire”. You should then hold your breath for some eight seconds, as you reiterate the under-mentioned words in your mind: “I consciously absorb this force, which now belongs to me”. The last step is for you to exhale the air, again for a period eight seconds, in an unhurried and uniform manner, in so doing mentally repeating to yourselves this utterance: “I now possess a perfect measure and balance, by which I can make myself the master of the magnetic force I have accumulated”. Should one wish to do so, he might repeat the exercise several times in a row. 
2) A second and very effective tactic which might be employed for the sake of self-control is presentification, which consists in a supreme form of attention and an inferior form of mental magic. What happens in this instance is that we successfully witness ourselves carrying out useful actions and concentrating ourselves on them and on the satisfaction they bring about in us. This method is very effective if 1) is accompanied by relaxation, and 2) is implemented persistently.
3) Lastly, a third tactic for limiting those actions the abuse of which might cause harm to accrue to our persons (and which consist for the main part in those actions that are pleasing in nature) is learning the art of appreciation. The natural end-result of habits and abundance is that they bleach the value of whatever grants us pleasure. We should accordingly pause at every moment to consider the value of whatever pleasure we are about to  taste, and, even more importantly, we should attentively study the  intensity of our sensations, in the process refusing to subtract value from pleasant objects because of our incorrect enjoyment of them. By proceeding along that path, we will eventually realize that we have the ability to derive the same magnitude of enjoyment from a lower consumption of energy. The art of appreciation, which includes how to appreciate the universe, must be enduringly present in our beings.
Exercises aimed at improving physical efficiency and self- control
In order to be regaled with a clear and balanced brain, it is necessary to have some propelling energy. Accordingly, the step which you are obligatorily required to take first, in order to increase your mental capacity, is the one whereby you strengthen your vital and nervous forces.
Personal magnetism is the expression of an elevated level of mental vigour. No one can have personal magnetism unless he also possesses a vital force. Rather, magnetism and personal efficacy are strictly connected to a concept which we might call “eurhythmy”. What we are trying to denote with this term is a simultaneous state of balance and vitality in the body. What is first and foremost necessitated in order to develop eurhythmy is a physical regimen which is such that it does not subtract nervous force from you. If you accumulate toxicity, if you overtax yourselves, if you forget to breathe extensively or to keep yourself clean and healthy, the imperfect internal combustion will give rise to a deleterious de-vitalization. It is in addition necessary to take care of one’s physique.
Every moderate muscular exercise the effect of which is to speed up circulation without causing excessive fatigue or removing energy from the brain in order to pass it onto the muscles represents an excellent stimulant. It ought to be kept in mind that what is needed is only that amount of exercise which one requires so as to accelerate circulation without generating fatigue. We are called upon to guard our mental forces and to avoid frittering them away.
Breathing
Breathing is an activity which is partly voluntary and partly involuntary. It is a bridge between the conscious and the unconscious. We can, through the medium of a series of respiratory and physical exercises, augment our energy and our magnetism, and increase our self-control.
Exercise 29
Stand by an open window or some other place, provided you have fresh and pure air; keep your body upright, with joined feet, shoulders leaning backwards, and with the chest forward, while the abdomen is being pushed back. You must first exhale from the lungs as much air as you can, whereafter you slowly inhale it through the nose, making sure to keep the mouth closed. At that stage, draw in the greatest possible amount of air, and follow that by holding the breath as you slowly count up to five. You finally draw out the air from the mouth, whereupon you repeat the exercise after a few seconds’ break. You should strive to repeat it three or four times in succession, and try to hold your breath for progressively longer periods as you go through the exercise again. 
After three or four mornings during which you practice it, this exercise might then be shelved aside in favour of carrying out the following one.
Exercise 30 
Put yourselves in the abovementioned position; exhale as much as air as you can from the lungs and, as you inhale, lift up your arms once more, horizontally, forcing yourselves to keep them as stiff as possible. You should ensure to spend as much time in forming a right angle with your arms and the rest of your body as it is necessary for you to inject air into the lungs. Immediately thereafter, lift the arms as high above your head as it is possible, and look at your toes. Then bend down gradually, until, if at all feasible, you are able to touch the floor with your fingertips, without bending your knees in the process. Regain at that point an upright position, and let the arms fall down along your body while you exhale the air through the lungs. At the beginning, this exercise might cause you a sensation of vertigo, but it will actually cause you no inconvenience. The occurrence of such a sensation is only due to the fact that some areas of the body, especially by the region of the lungs, which had long been inactive, are now put to use. There is no exercise which is able to compel air to enter each and every particle of the lungs that can be compared to the one we have just described above. The implementation of this exercise will not take more than one minute of your time each morning, and only a few days will be enough to persuade the student of the extremely far-reaching benefits it is capable of securing. Not only is it extremely beneficial to your health, but, in addition, it also permeates the body as well as the spirit with a magnetic energy which cannot be possibly attained in any other manner.
Lastly, the following exercise is very useful even for the purpose of generally gaining control over your selves. It might be put into practice whenever you take a walk, or even without you moving at all. You might even base it on the rhythm of your steps or that of some internalized computation of time. In the event that you were to base it on the rhythm of your steps, it might be that your choice should fall on a lower rhythm. 
1st stage. – Walk by taking regular steps. Head up, the chin slightly in, and the shoulders backwards.
2nd stage. – Carry out a full inhaling motion, in the process counting 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8 in your mind. Count each figure at a time with every step you take.  
3rd stage. – Hold your breath as you count 1-2-3-4 (This third stage might be done away with by those persons who are implementing the exercise for the first time).
4th stage. – Exhale the air through the nostrils while counting 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8.
5th stage. - Count 1-2-3-4 steps without breathing.
You then repeat the exercise until you begin to feel a bit tired, whereupon you should take some breaths in order to relax and be able to subsequently resume the exercise at will. It helps to carry out this exercise several times a day. By walking slowly, you will be able to breathe according to the 6/3 formula.
Exercises for the spinal column
The exercising which stimulates the spinal column is an important one. Whatever lends strength to the spinal column is in fact useful. Building a better spinal column has the meaning of building a better and more energetic human being. 
We firstly suggest, with regard to the appropriate movement, to carry out especially the neck exercises, as they have a most pronounced impact on the cervical spine. In the light of the fact that such movements aim at conferring energy on the nervous system, one can understand why they would also have a direct influence on our mental faculties as well. 
The guiding point of these movements consists in waving the head in different directions, right and left, backward and forward, at the oscillation rhythm of one such movement every second.
Even the back in general and the whole spine are essential for a proper development of energy. 
A first advice designed for everyday life is to focus on one’s own weight upon the ground, in order to identify a better vertical posture. 
There are, in addition, a number of useful exercises. The following one is an easy and effective illustration of them:
Exercise 31 
Position - Upright, feet drawn together, hands placed behind the back, with the fingers either joined or crossed by the sides.
Execution – Lower the hands by letting them slide down your back. Go as low as you can. The hands must always stay in contact with one another.
Thereafter, in order to consolidate the effect even further: 

Exercise 32
Position: Lie with your back against a pole, a tree, or, in the absence of either such object, against the edge of a partition, a wardrobe or any other kind of furniture, provided it is suitable to the implementation of the exercise. The body must scrupulously cling to the furniture, from the nape down to the heels. Join the arms in front of you in a horizontal position
Execution: While keeping the body motionless, you should stretch your arms backwards, taking care to keep them horizontal all the time. The arms ought to trace an arc with the broadest possible circular extension, and one in any event in excess of 180 degrees (half a circumference).

Exercise 33

Position – You should face a wall, a wardrobe, a door or some other object. Legs slightly moved away from one another, while the feet are kept in a square position.
Execution – Lift your right leg and try to make it reach the fingertips of your hand at the greatest possible height. Simultaneously, the left leg should be pushed down, vertically, with the maximum possible effort, as if a weight was sweeping it along. Try and alternate between the two arms. 
NB – The effect must be felt locally by the spinal chord, and not only by the arms.
Food and Drinks
Water is essential to the organism. It is markedly important that the organism should not be deprived of water. Such requirement is ensured by daily drinking a sufficient quantity of it.
As for food, one must avoid overfeeding himself, since that might have the effect of enfeebling and stupefying the brain.  As a proverb says, “full stomach means an empty head”. Whenever we happen to overeat, all the nervous activities are snatched by the stomach for it to carry out its digestive work, with the result that nothing of that kind is available for mental activity any longer.
Rapidly stimulating exercises
In addition to the abovementioned mental stimulation exercises, there is another form of exercising which will often be found to be extremely useful whenever one needs to treat a state of mental torpor or debilitation This kind of exercises go under the name of “rapidly energizing or stimulating exercises”.

Tapping into energy in a matter of few seconds – This exercise might gift you energy very quickly. Look at a light in front of you. Starting from the “military salute” posture, you should slowly lift the heels of your joined legs as you simultaneously clinch your fists. You should meanwhile inhale air for a period of 7 seconds. When you have reached a high point by stretching yourselves upwardly, you must hold your breath for 3 seconds. You should thereafter move down, exhaling air and relaxing your fists as you do so. Having reached the lowest possible point, you can then relax for 3 seconds.
Breathing timing of the exercise

Straightening the spinal chord
The spinal chord is essential to the development of the will. A slightly modified variant of the previous exercise of lifting oneself on the heels might additionally be carried out for the purpose of straightening the spinal chord. Starting from a posture of “military salute”, you slowly lift up the heels of your joined feet, while the spinal chord is stiffened as much as possible (contrary to the preceding exercise, where it was in fact relaxed). The exercise is rendered even more effective by bringing one’s crossed hands behind the nape of the back as it is carried out.


Note: Additional advices on the physical wellbeing which is needed for eurhythmy are going to be put forward in the course of the next chapter of this book.
Summary of the Phases relating to the part about “acquiring control over one’s own life”
1. Making the decision to achieve self-mastery: Having control over repetitive and automatic thoughts 
2. Developing a new and original thought
3. Determining the shortest route which takes you to that goal 
4. Letting go of useless physical tensions (relaxation)
5. Gathering your thoughts 
6. Releasing useless thoughts - being present to what you do
7. Being present in the now and getting rid of hindering emotions. Always allowing your  mind to function clearly and neatly 
8. Constantly developing energy and wellbeing

Factors impacting on personal magnetism 
(in addition to the ones mentioned here above)

1. Avoiding dispersions within a social context (such as talking unnecessarily, outbursts, etc)
2. Having a positive and open attitude towards other people 
3. Nurturing “eurhythmy”, that is, a cerebral state of balance and vitality 
Part Two – UNDERSTANDING TIME AND SELF-ORIENTATION
How many people live their lives “swept along by circumstances”? 
The expression “I did not have enough time”, which represents the most common excuse tendered by whoever fails to honour his commitments, is a nonsensical argument. Every man has 24 hours a day at his disposal. What one needs to know, therefore, is not whether he can fulfil his commitment, but whether he can bind himself by it in the first place. The truth, indeed, is that “lacking sufficient time” is a complaint which is voiced in the main by those who do not carry out any work at all. Being able to accomplish something is always dependent on two variables: 1) Our own energy, and 2) our organizational aptitude.
What we are going to do
Once we have learnt how to attain mastery over our own selves, and having practically assimilated the art of clearing up the field of our activity by removing from it the entire spectrum of useless actions and frantic agitations, thereby eliminating those emotions which pose the risk of blocking us, we must try and understand how to act in time.
We must plan our day beforehand, and be conscious of what we do in the course of it, in such a manner that we can extract from it the maximum possible result and the highest possible level of satisfaction.
In addition to organizing our life so as to enable us to take a specific direction, practical ideation, which is the subject matter we are going to devote the present chapter to, appears after a while to have an impact on the unexpected as well. Even if the occurrence of such an impact is not an invariable phenomenon, we might nevertheless assert that the unexpected will at least be different from what it would have otherwise been had our actions not been premeditated. 
Life is but a single day
The ultimate aim of our method is to teach the art of living in consonance with one’s natural talent at the loftiest and noblest level which can be achieved.
An important rule, which complements the cardinal rule of Elimination, namely, «Do not do (say, think, feel) anything useless», is the cardinal rule of Organization:
"The useful should be carried out (uttered, thought, felt) to the highest degree of perfection".
This is another one of the key rules, since every thing which is perfectly done or verbally expressed is an instance of acting which is free from any wastage, trimmed down therefore to the maximum possible simplicity, and which will be in need of no subsequent repetition.
Understanding our direction
Daily activity, which is an infinitesimal part of our life, might be compared to the activity carried out within a single minute when it is weighed up with the activity of a full day. What we mean to say is that (exactly as in the case of a single minute’s activity), its significance is not disclosed by examining on its own the entire day, but is rather grasped once we relate it to the activity which preceded it and to the goal we ultimately intend to accomplish. In other terms, we cannot develop a clear conceptual vision of a day’s task unless, at the same time, we have a distinct idea in our mind of what we want to attain in our life. 
We must nevertheless take care of refraining from thinking on the strength of conditioning and advices which reach us from the outside. Every human being is unique, and what is fine for an individual is not necessarily suitable to a different person.
We must be able to keep to the ground, and simultaneously find our own dimension. The key to that is to be present, that is, to enlarge our consciousness as much as we can, until we are eventually able to be in communion with harmony. So long as we are present, our feeling will not be deceitful. When we are present, we are able to discover our true dimension, either through the help of a profound intuition, or by deducing it from the things which surround us, thanks to a look which is grounded on presence.
There are in fact some accumulations of reality which, once perceived, might help us comprehend the direction that should be taken and further developed. We must realize the direction that is ensconced in things. Understanding one’s own direction is tantamount to get a better understanding of the Universe and of ourselves within that Universe. 
Every man, each one according to his idiosyncratic nature and his specific culture, unconsciously formulates in his mind a purpose which he makes his own.  The problem, however, is that such purpose is very often one he has copied from other people, be they family members or outsiders. So long as that external ideal lurks in the subconscious, it sometimes has an undesired influence on our beings. What we are learning in the context of this book, by contrast, is to go into ourselves and consciously decide, in a state of awareness, what we want to do, as opposed to letting ourselves be tossed around at will by impulses which hold sway over our persons. 
Men widely differ from one another in the way they approach the purpose behind their lives. 
There is the man who lives entertaining a vague hope, and who fails to pay attention. For most men, living has the meaning of spending the present by coping with the hardships of existence as best as possible, in the vague expectation of a better future. With this kind of approach, what is better or worse is restricted to one’s animal side, and the urge to evolve is left to the vagaries of chance, in the clutch of some hope in an ambiguous “something” which might change one’s existence. With regard to this category of people, there is no purposeful quest for something better, and no search of one’s true life “vocation”.
As for the loftier type of man, he can discern a higher ideal which is intellectual, aesthetic, family-related, or social. In his regard, living denotes the following: Building something, being active. This construction work springs out of an impulse linking him to the Universe. A man of this nature is inclined to reach an ever vaster understanding, to feel his self as being a conscious element within an increasingly larger environment. A man who is endowed with a goal might only be an unhappy fellow because, under the influence of other people, he has relinquished realization of that correspondence which binds him to his intrinsic nature. Otherwise, he cannot fail to be an optimist.  This concept of having a direction, a purpose, an ideal, is equally present in a philosopher, an artist or a merchant. Every division of men into men of thought and man of action is artificial. The only true distinguisher lies in the fact that, whereas the arena where the former class of people, the men of thought, is located, is in their own beings, the stage where men of action act exists externally to their selves.
The achievers 
“There is no propitious wind for the one who lacks acquaintance with where he should head for” 
(Seneca)
The advocates of the theory of the “state of flux”, i.e. that stage wherein to work becomes easy and a person manages to accomplish the highest possible level of results, have noticed that, in most instances, these fortunate individuals are “self-directing”, meaning that they have objectives which conform to their selves, to their own essential inward being.
Understanding the initial impulse
“Wherever there is a will there is a way”
(Guillaume d’ Orange)

The achievers are those who have stability in their life direction. Every man who makes a sufficient attempt at searching possesses a natural ability to make existential choices. He spontaneously possesses an array of capacities for self-orientation. This innate talent, which one detects in such variety of human beings, has its origin in the relationship with the Universe which people like them have. These inborn gifts to choose a direction in life finds expression in the realms of thoughts, facts and coincidences that seem to indicate a specific path which is, at the same time, a path that is intrinsically tailor-made for us and one that corresponds to our distinguishing peculiarities.  

“Causality is no more than a principle, and psychology cannot be exhausted merely by having recourse to causal methods, due to the fact that the spirit (the psyche) lives to an equal extent out of goals it aims for” 
(Carl Gustav Jung)

When they are truthful, these are never constrictions, but rather openings. We must understand that they represent possibilities which the Universe grants us in order for us to find an outward outlet of self-expression. We must avoid viewing them as obligations, as we should rather deem them possible directions we can take for the sake of living out life. 
The truth is that we “play” with life, in the sense that life is always complete in itself, whichever way one spends it. The higher your presence and perception, the better will be your understanding of these originating impulses. 
One way of approaching the issue is to ask ourselves this question and then be present, armed with sensory attentiveness. In that case, the Universe might reply to us.  
Go back to a state of intense presence, and feel the direction which energy takes. Follow that direction with confident trust. You can rest assured that the answer will come. Do not be afraid of posing the question again. Pay heed to the “synchronicities” which penetrate your life, that is, to the “opportunities” that correspond to the essence of your beings.
Exercise 34
Opportunities, openings, coincidences around me:
_______________________________________
The previous type of research will find completion by engaging in moments of deep meditation which are capable of corroborating, in your eyes, the soundness of the direction that has been chosen. If that is done, your dimension will arise out of the signs provided by intuition. Make use of the relaxation techniques which have been described in the preceding chapter, and ask for some words that are capable of acting as inspirational ideas in your life. What might emerge are such words as “building”, “communicating”, or even “loving”.
Exercise 35 – Relaxing 
Relax deeply and then let one part of your beings, the “clearer” part, surface. Imagine yourselves being able to climb as if inside your selves. If, in the darkness of your eyelids, you feel as if you perceive some glows of light which emerge within your mental space, focus thereon your attention, particularly in the region of the third eye or the top of your skull. You will then notice that the luminous glow is going to increase. At that stage, allow the emergence of some words which supply an answer to the question: “What is important for me to accomplish?”; “What should be done?”. Some concepts, some ideas, will come into your view. Record them in writing. For many people, it is easier to implement this exercise if they are led through it.
Some Ideas which are suggested by intuition:


This kind of ideas are often lofty, beyond the individual person concerned, and yet they paradoxically correspond to the “colour” which should be possessed by ideations that are able to strengthen one’s self-meaning when they are put into effect. Do not however let yourselves be deceived by words. You must probe the meaning of such words which is exclusive to yourselves. You know what you want because you are. These are deep desires. If in the course of your life, you find the way of accomplishing what you feel your true inspiration is, you will genuinely succeed in causing your gifts to yield concrete results 46. 

Inspiration acts as guide for you to channel your energy and define your ideals and objectives. For example, a person for whom “loving” is important might subsequently find his natural zone of action in a profession centred on interpersonal relationships, exactly in the same way that someone for whom “doing” is important has an intrinsic capacity to develop himself through some managerial activity. It is not even necessarily the case that you should have engaged precisely in the activity which naturally corresponds to any such basic inclination. The one who comes up with the word “to love” at the time of answering the question referred to in the description of the preceding exercise, might probably want to inject love into his work, and have a preference for activities which involve adding value to other people and enable a form of exchange, with the result that he will find his self-development in them. We accordingly enjoy a very extensive degree of freedom in defining these ideal professions and activities, always bearing in mind to somehow find an outlet of expression for the primal impulse which has set us onto our own specific directions. Life’s events and circumstances are opportunities which facilitate progression on the path, so long as the wayfarer’s attitude is the right one. 
Primary impulse

Defining one’s life ideals
Developing powerful ideals
“Whatever existed was first lodged in the mind of some individual”
Ponder the aforesaid sentence carefully. There was a time when Edison had the light bulb “in mind”, and no one knew how to get to such a discovery. You might have some grandiose ideas, but you cannot move forward so as to actually implement them, unless you are able to discern, in your observation of things, the practical idea, unless you are able, that is, to concretely work out the image of the factual improvement that needs to be achieved. Educating one’s fantasy has as its consequence the building of a bridge between reality and what you desire. Whoever is devoid of imagination is the passive target of the concatenation of life’s events; as for the one regaled with imagination, by contrast, he «rapidly crosses the various stages» and attains not what he should, but rather what he would like to realize. If — say — you are a merchant, you might be one because you feel an initial impulse which is turned towards the realm of building and communicating. This primordial impulse later turns, in the sphere of practical implementations, into the idea of starting up a business. Your imagination would then let you visualize your clients and their needs, whereupon you succeed in selling far more than what you would have been able to do had you limited yourselves to waiting for them at the entrance of your shops. An even keener visualization might allow you to perceive the apposite root empowering you to further expand your activities and exploit your talents to an even greater extent.
Visualizing, as we understand it here, is thus a process of setting out to create, knowing that such effort will produce results, by using one’s imagination as the departure point.

Visualizing
How does one, however, nurture this type of imagination? In order to imagine properly, one’s horizons need to be wide. Whoever restricts his personal horizon to no more than his usual range of interests, and deems any other culture to be a waste of time, will never be able to train his imagination. There are men who, beyond the scope of their professions, know nothing and are interested in nothing: They never read a poem, and never visit a museum. One has to be “human”, not just professional. 
You must learn, in your surroundings, the signs which the Universe transmits to your persons, as well as the directions which open up in front of you with their peculiar vistas. 
Exercise 36 – Visualization
Withdraw into a room, possibly a half-lit one, relax, and make sure you visualize a vivid picture of whatever your reflection happens to concentrate upon. Even though, the first times you carry out this exercise, it might seem as if you are reaping no results from it, creative ideas will gradually surface around you, and you will eventually end up acquiring a kind of  «inner sight», such that it will be likely to rescue you from falling into gross mistakes. You might subsequently empower these sessions further by looking at the mirror thanks to the “reflected light”.
Exercise 37 – Developing intuition by recourse to the mirror 
While you are in the same environment as the one referred to in the previous exercise, look for 30 seconds at a light (max. 75 watts) 47 which is reflected in a mirror, in so doing thinking of the subject matter concerning which you would like to find some inspiration. You might for example say to yourself: “I wonder how many different operational methods I can find which are suitable for this market”. Close your eyes. After a few moments, you might notice a luminous trace. Pay heed to the way the residual luminous light develops until it finally disappears, which should be around two minutes from then (As with the earlier exercise, you will notice the appearance of a luminous halo around). Open the eyes again, and write down now all the ideas that have sprung to your mind. 

Developing intuition through the medium of a mirror

It is important to always make room for higher dimensions. Reflect about the fact that we are never alone and without support in the sea of immensity. Several studies which have been conducted on the subject of creativity have shown how there are some moments in which the best ideas surface, and which are represented by the moments when the mind and our usual ego are relaxed. Believe it or not, five minutes of quiet meditation amid the peace of some hermitage might be able to «produce» far more than what is brought about by many days of febrile activity. Our soul is in need of nourishment just as much as our body. A lovely sunset, the starred canopy of a sky, the contemplation of a beautiful building, all enrich whoever is capable of understanding such sceneries. Dreaming is by no means the same as wasting one’s time. Even the capability of having nice dreams is a wealth which cannot be acquired through money. If you were to study the mystery of the world inscribed in golden hieroglyphics on the vaults of the Empyrean, while feeling yourselves citizens of the Universe, you will experience things more than the person who only has the trivial ambition his tiny individual identity delineates. Do not raise the objection that you have too many matters to attend to for you to bother about casting a look at the sky or at the artistic world. Whoever only attends to his «routine» only lives in the middle of things: He is a poor fellow, even though possessed of very extensive material riches. 

Example:
What inspiration comes to me that defines my ideals and dreams?
In the work context:


In the context of interpersonal relationships: 


Etc.
Do you want, can you, and are you determined to do?
Such a question might seem to be strange. Let us therefore hasten at once to elucidate its very important meaning. Every situation in our life is the product of a particular manner in which we relate to time.
1. Knowing what one wants. – One often thinks he knows what he actually wants, and yet his ideal is too imprecise or fluctuating, or else it does not conform to his real being. Other people go even as far as to confuse “wanting” with “desiring”.  One cannot set his look on something devoid of a body, for otherwise the result would be null. We should consider that wanting entails for us an action. We must therefore get used to capture what we want to will in some picture which embodies it concretely. 
2. The possibility of accomplishing what one wants. – It is useless to will something impossible: Our very being will be alert to such impossibility, by refusing to produce an effort it already knows to be futile. Put it in other words, our unconscious would spontaneously tend to debar us from wasting energy in vain. Willing is only based on having the capacity to do. Noticing that some other person has been actually able to do something, for example, opens one’s mind to the possibility of accomplishing it, and enables the action of one’s will to manifest. Yet another key is reflecting whether we had not already been granted that possibility in the past. You must therefore say this to yourselves: - Yes, I can. 
3. The sincerity and truthfulness of one’s willing. – It denotes that one should “decide to do”. Out of the three psychological prerequisites of one’s volitional effort, sincerity of will is most frequently found to be the missing element. One is quite entitled to assert that most instances of negative results are due to such lack of sincerity. If you, however, are able to give an affirmative reply to the said question, you might then move onto the next phase:
Practical ideation
Many people have a plethora of ideals, and yet they fail to accomplish them. This is where the phenomenon of time enters the picture. After the stages of entertaining an idea and embodying it in some concrete image, we move to the stage of practical ideation, that is, the clarification of the idea in time. What we term «practical ideation» (idea-action) is the art of building beforehand in our mind a plan for our activity, basing ourselves in the process on the elements we have at our disposal, and taking into account the results we would like to actualize. «Practical ideation» is not just a simple mental representation, as it can also be defined as an act for the sake of which we construct a matrix of the Universe, a matrix which is deployed facing the direction of time, and which encompasses the preparation of all those conditions by virtue of which a desired state turns into what is possible (You might conceive the word as having the following form: idea – action). It creates order in destiny.

life ideals

Connection with time (ideation)

Action
How to build a sequence of phases efficiently 
Every important undertaking is brought to completion through the cooperative contribution of a sequence (logical concatenation) of interrelated facts, which include study, action, relationships and whatever else is necessary. 
Practical ideation ? ideal as outcome of a sequence of stages aiming at a purposeful goal
Today’s action arises out of yesterday’s action, and is in turn the basis of tomorrow’s action. In essence, we must therefore come to conceive life as one single day where the years are represented by the hours, and the hours by the seconds: The day of eternity. 
Our own life, indeed, is nothing other than some part of a vaster whole. If we really want to inject meaningfulness into it, we must take this higher dimension into account. Whoever fails to pay heed to that properly will be unable to confer a clearly demarcated purpose on his own existence 48.
Once this concept is well entrenched in our mind, the natural corollary which is inferred from it is that every single day will be obliged to accomplish, even to a most negligible extent, part of the overall task assigned to life as a whole, in spite of the fact that, simultaneously, any such separate day has its own validity as a self-contained lesser whole. 
Man’s two times 
We have already stressed that every single day, in addition to being part of a global plan, must also be a full self-contained unit, while being at the same time a moment of time in which we draw nutriment from our ideal once again and discover new routes which we had previously never thought of.
The goal, which is the initial foundation of the method, must always be supplemented by the concept of “opportunities”, which gradually surface in life and sometimes enable paradigm shifts to take place. 
The world, in truth, moves on by virtue of opportunities, but what happens is that, at times, we close ourselves to such opportunities by thinking about our objectives with excessive frequency.
An objective is in fact a deformation of reality. Even though one part of external reality is structured, most of it is still governed by randomness. Over and above programmed and chronological time, in fact, there is another category of time, which is the time of the now. The ancient people already knew it. It might be the equivalent of the Greek concept of “Kairòs” (??????). This concept might denote “doing things at the right moment”, as well as “being synchronized with reality”, or “being aligned with the now”. The ancient Greeks used to say that it was the time in which the god would manifest. This god, as we interpret it, might be deemed to represent potentiality and opportunity. They are in fact the dual set of coincidences which open up novel possibilities.  Kairòs is the time in which we can gain access to our potential. It is the time in which chances and opportunities originate, and in which synchronicities occur.
It is by paying attention to the now that possibilities arise and fall into our view, and that we are able to discover genial opportunities!
Recognize the right moment! (???????? ??????) 
(Pittaco of Mytilene)
Characteristic features of man’s two times
We have, therefore, two different times in man:
One of them is programmed and logical time, a time of becoming which we might call by the Greek term chronos.
The second such time is a time of energy and opportunities, a time for enjoyment and deriving the most that one can from life, which we might label kairòs.
Both these times co-exist in man. Chronos (which is planned time) must manifest as a supporting platform that is capable of enabling kairòs (the time of opportunities and joy of living) to be exteriorized in turn, and also, if need be, to change chronos itself. 
Chronos: Time and chronological succession. It is ideally suited to the function of laying down the initial structure of an activity. At the start of every day, it will be appropriately opportune to pose to ourselves the question: — “Which is the most important commitment that looms ahead of me today?”. Moreover, if at the end of any day it will be shown that such a task has not been successfully fulfilled, that will be automatic proof of the fact that you have forgotten the motive behind your own activity. You must therefore pay a great deal of attention to such primary commitment, and work out your priorities around it. Many people read today, and yet they defer execution to the next day. You must clearly tell your selves, persuade your selves, that tomorrow does not exist. When tomorrow will be «today», tomorrow will have already turned into something else. Our life is only made up of many different «today’s». You live today. It is today that you are called upon to act. In order to clarify the point, we are going to say that the extent of categorical commitment which we succeed in practically carrying out during a day is what confers on that day an entrenched, absolute value within the folds of a chronology, and which in any event allows you to move towards the accomplishment of your ideal.
Kairòs: You must also remember, however, that, apart from being able to find a daily outlet for actualizing your talents towards a specific purpose, you should take care of successfully living every day of yours as a complete self-contained moment. Every day is in fact endowed with its own peculiar value. Being a unit distinct as such from any other unit, it must consist in a work of harmony, of unity with our own selves. Every day must simultaneously be a masterpiece in itself, complete in itself and capable of expressing a self-contained purpose. Limiting ourselves to solely giving effect to our devoted commitment, in fact, leads to absurd results and to certain failure, since in that case life would only be lived for the sake of such commitment. Life, however, is a right, not a mission. To live in time, understood as Kairòs, further denotes the ability to seize the opportunities which life offers us. It is indeed possible that such opportunities will open up new ways. It is accordingly necessary to acquire the knowledge of how to inject energy into the now, and how to be effectively able to live the moment.
Whereas linear time is born out of planning, “Kairòs” is an intuitive time in a state of “connection” and “re-integration” with one’s own being. 
This acting does not consist in a static reality, contrary to what takes place when the mind becomes blocked. The opposite is in fact true: This form of acting represents a higher plane of functioning. It is an opening, a time of opportunities to grab, as such corresponding to a more elevated understanding of the present moment. To give an example: I cannot leave due to a strike being staged. If I were to analyze reality from the viewpoint of my mental program, I would either get furious or I would try to act. If I am plunged in the ??????, what I find myself is would be represented instead by a moment where a reality exists and everything is possible. When I move within that level, whichever action I choose to embark upon will not be based on any past programming, but rather on what is present in the now, which is after all the only time there is. It is as if my brain was a newborn child who had come to discover the world in that particular instant. It is a form of discovering harmonious concord with some cosmic rhythm. The time of “kairòs” is even superior for yet another reason: It is the only variety of time which enables one to effectively work with the so-called “subtle realities”, i.e. to deal with a dimension where it is possible to attain substantial results “beyond physical reality”, such as, for instance, distance healing, as well as coincidences, those unexpected facts which allow us to progress at supersonic speed towards the goal we have set out for, or even towards completely new goals we had never even imagined before. It is as if, within the time of “kairòs”, man, by establishing a link with reality, “moved beyond” and thereby arrived at a dimension no longer capable of being expressed at the level of the physical time-space reality. The kairòs in fact corresponds to an expansion of the consciousness and a greater extent of comprehensiveness. Kairòs is a time of energetic attention to the now.
The development of such a state might likewise be rendered smoother by implementing specific exercises which “allow a better” and more complete “functioning” of the brain. In the eyes of quantum mechanics, states of elevated cerebral coherence are related to the possible occurrence of “non-local” effects, that is to say, effects which no longer fall within the traditional categories of cause ? effect 49.


?
General direction in life
*****
Single “self-contained” moments
placed on one line

In order for us to understand how every day is a complete self-contained unit while at the same time being part of a line, we might compare the passing of time, understood in that sense, with the relationship existing between a given social group and the individual members thereof who make it up. Every person within the group is complete, self-sufficient and happy in himself and by himself, and is also independent, and yet, together with the other persons, he represents a larger entity.
Things therefore happen in this manner: Pleasures and affections, the whole spectrum of our bodily and spiritual instincts, gather around the practical implementation of our daily commitment 50. The totality of those pleasures, etc, must however gather in such a manner as not to harm the execution of the following day’s imperative task, and so on. At the same time, this is no more than an essential beam allowing us to lend shape and direction to a day in which we might discover new opportunities able to lead us onto some positive paradigm shift. It is thus that we find two times existing side by side: A time of becoming, where we outwardly express ourselves in one particular direction, and an absolute time, being a time in which every day is lived for what it truly is, extracting maximum pleasure from it. In this latter time, we might happen to come across new opportunities which empower us to proceed along progressively larger dimensions.




		                             




The discovery, as one moves on (chronos), of novel opportunities (vertical lines - kairos), allows us to find increasingly greater outlets of external self-expression  
Temporal sequences – The time of the self and the time of becoming 
The time of the instant and the short span of time must be felt as something complete in itself. Conversely, the time of becoming is structured in a sequence of events. We are not, in other words, merely aware of the now, because, as we think of a particular moment, we join together a series of events, in particular an imaginary future as well as a past which is recollected in our memory 51. The length of such sequences is essential for the purpose of the action which is subsequently opted for.

This structuring in accordance with time sequences is a mental construction which is automatically worked out by our mind. While some people have a long temporal horizon, the temporal horizon of other people is short.
Our self, our acquired personality, is made up of such sequences. As for our inward essential being, it is, by contrast, normally located beyond time. Sometimes our self might actually be based on a sequence marked by an incongruous duration, such that it might even prevent us from attaining our ideals and expressing ourselves outwardly. This is for instance the case of the person who, in order to make an impression on his friends (“self” characterized by too short a time sequence), fritters away all his assets; or even, on the other end of the same spectrum, the condition of the miser who does not spend on himself, and who is unable to realize that his life is subject to a temporal duration and is thus shortly drawing to an end. Yet another illustrating example is that of an individual who is unable to ever commit himself to a relationship, as he incessantly formulates mental projections, spanning many years, of a possible life together with any person he meets. We might think of an additional scenario, one in which an error in respect of a time horizon might even make us feel devoid of any control over the situation, whereas, by starting from small steps, we might possibly be able to dominate it. This is for instance the case of a person who lets his self be swayed by panic. Conversely, too short a horizon might screen us from noticing the consequences of what we are busy doing.  
If we are capable of selecting the appropriate time sequence, if we, that is, can manage to detach ourselves from too static a “self”, we are then enabled to function better and to better channel our vital energy towards an intended objective. The framing time horizon is normally unconscious. How can we then succeed in expanding the vision?
Breadth and variety of our time sequence

                                        
Choice of action in the world

An effective method which acts on the time factor is the method making simultaneous use of a number of time frames. Such a strategy consists in readying more than one level, each one of them supplied with a different time period: Short-term, medium-term, and lifelong.  The last mentioned period will be of fundamental importance.
Now
Short-term
Medium-term
Life Plan
In this manner, we shall additionally avoid memory’s cognitive traps, since memory often causes us to focus on the short term, and ensures that whoever keeps on being influenced by the past forgets at the same time his future goal. We must therefore be conscious of the relationship which links the full path, the year, the month, and the week or the single day 52. 
Exercise 38 – Temporal imaginations  
Imagine you are watching a movie which moves towards the object of your desire. Follow with your look the time sequences until they come to your intended goal, and extract from there your plan for the year, and then the ones for the month, the week and the day 53. The process might even be gone through very quickly.
It is imperative, however, that we should not only live within temporal imagination. Whoever, in fact, does not also develop the time of the instant (Kairòs), only enslaves himself to his logical and habit-loving brain, and accordingly loses opportunities and the taste for life. He is incapable of manifesting vital energy, free from any time constriction, in the now. Whereas Chronos steers the vital energy, in fact, Kairòs frees it in a spontaneous manner, as it consists in the consciousness of the instant which sets energy free. Not being immersed in kairòs, therefore, means that one lacks the capacity to open himself up to higher horizons, including the spiritual and creative horizons. It is only in establishing a balance between these two times that success is found.
1) Chronos: Vital force directed at an objective – structure of the day
2) Kairòs: Vital force which is present in the now ? - distilled quintessence of the day
Let us retain an attitude of life which is steeped in presence and the enjoyment of the now and of acting  

Short-Term Plan (day or week) ?
Medium-term plan (year or time period directed at a goal) ?
Ideal-based or life plan (It provides support for the other levels and defines them) ?

?? Always present: Energy and existential attitude  
(Presence and enjoyment of the now and of acting in the now) ??
Chronos and Kairòs are thus complementary. Regardless of how many opportunities and interests life might offer us (kairòs), if we are unable to function sequentially we shall waste them away, inasmuch as we will lack the capacity to grant a sequitur to such opportunities and interests (chronos). Kairòs is a vertical dimension which gets connected with the horizontal dimension of  chronos, as if to create a + cross with it.
Ideation, which corresponds to the horizontal line, comes into the picture here in the form of a logically conceived plane which is inspired by the absolute will to actualize it. The aforesaid further gets rid of preoccupation in one go. If, in fact, we know how to reach a result, there is no longer any reason to fear in the present. We might rather be able to live the present fully, and thereby unveil new opportunities. 
Making the movie of the future
Predicting is pre-imagining. It is to see events as if in a movie. This pre-imagination is an intention to engage in an action, and the equivalent of a state of channelling energy, which lets our inward being know what it should be doing. In that manner, the response or the act will be carried out very rapidly, so rapidly that no time will be available for external incitements to interpose themselves in the narrow interstice between the thought and the response or the act. 
It is however important to plan in relation to a goal. Besides, such goal will only be a firm one if it is connected with our beings. 
The real man always knows what he wants (Tao Te King)
It is the realization of our ideal which grants firmness and prevents subsequent dispersions. One can possibly assert that constructive, hence useful, action, is only that action which rests on one’s life plan. That, of course, does not mean that we have to identify ourselves with such goal. In every moment, we must always be present to ourselves, so that we are in a position to relate every life event to ourselves, by for instance “pouring that event into us”, and by possibly discovering new possibilities in the process.
There is no idea which is valid in itself. An idea is always an interdependent reality: In order to confer on it its due importance, it is necessary to pigeonhole it within the general context of our activity. 
Practical ideation has the additional effect of creating interest in work or in some form of pleasure, as both work and pleasure would thereby prove to be more organized, logical and clear in one’s mind, and would also be better orientated towards the goal we intend reaching. Accordingly, one could define ideation as follows: “The elucidation of the idea”, that is, the “art of obtaining through reflection some good advance knowledge of what one wants to do”. It thus enables the elimination of extraneous, dispersive and parasitical ideas. 
Predicting alternative possibilities
Let us premeditate well. Man does not err due to a lack of will as much as he does as a result of mistaken or incomplete judgments. An inadequate judgment is echoed by an erroneous or defective action. If we, for example, neglect to carry out an action and then regret our omission, we must necessarily reach the conclusion that the action had not been neglected on account of a lack of will, but due to the fact that the judgment which had been reached on its importance had been insufficiently formulated, and thus lacked the necessary time to take roots in our soul and convert into action. An embryonic idea is the first step of acting, and no break subsists between such idea and the resultant action. If we wanted to lay down a general formula, we might say that error is the by-product of a shallow judgment which is lacking in depth. The achiever, by contrast, deeply elaborates the idea which he subjects to examination. We will in essence find that what is needed is to nurture intuition along with one’s analytical faculty. 
Exercise 39 – Light and ideas
Think of something you desire, and make it as broad as you can, e.g. experiencing a life of happy relationships. Repeat to yourselves the phrase, ‘I wonder in how many different ways I can experience happy relationships in life’, as you keep watching a light for some thirty seconds. Close your eyes. Wait a short while, and then jot down whatever springs to mind as replies to the said question. Repeat the process if need be. Identify the most brilliant ideas which surface to your minds. As you reach that stage, go again through the process while looking at the light more than once, each time placing back in the light the answers you get to the question. You will arrive at new results, and you will develop some kind of “sequence of phases", which you will subsequently perfect.

An essential facilitating aid is to always nurture the relationship with our own unconscious or deep inward essence. Our individualistic self, consisting as it does of habits, is seldom capable of fully understanding the infinite range of answers which life might provide. It is therefore necessary to open up one's vision and have recourse to intuition, to a higher sense which is not merely grounded on logic, but is rather based on an array of different evaluations which can only be made unconsciously.
Exercise 40 – The inner code
Be in a state of eurhythmy (balance). Relax deeply, and establish contact with your own selves. Direct your attention to the area of your navel. Ask your unconscious side to give you an affirmative or a negative reply through a slight motioning (by the fingers). Determine beforehand which finger corresponds to the "yes" answer.  Ask your unconscious now whether it is able to hear. After a while, you will notice in your finger a movement taking place spontaneously. At that point, you might submit some questions to your deep inward being. This exercise might prove to be easy for some persons, whereas other people might need the assistance of a hypnotist capable of guiding them. This is one of the best exercises so as to nurture a relationship with one’s unconscious. The more, in fact, we develop a dialogue with it, the greater the ability of the unconscious to deepen and expand. The exercise is likewise useful for the sake of establishing a priority between different possible actions.
Exercise 41: Verification of ideas and ideals
Using again the method of the inner code, you should now verify once more the correlation of the previously demarcated ideas and ideals with your own selves.
Another useful exercise endowed with the capacity of making you accustomed to establish contact with your own self, is the development of the faculty of judging things through a single glance. The unconscious, in fact, gives the answer prior to the conscious mind doing so. 
Lastly, an aid to discover truth consists in nurturing the spirit of self-contradiction: If we desire to do something, let us look for justifications to avoid doing them. Conversely, if we are determined to refrain from something, we should search for reasons that will exhort us to engage in it. It is a convenient tool for balancing at once the benefit and harm of any particular matter. We are too often absent-minded: There is not a single thing we might not be able to accomplish better by drawing onto it our undivided deliberate attention.
Discovering opportunities
By organizing yourselves, you will bring order into your time and you will realize you have at your disposal more time, which will appear to be longer as well 54. This “additional” time is useful for developing opportunities. Opportunities are the reason that enables us to make a positive paradigm shift. If one wants to be an achiever, if the discovery of new ways is something desired, it is then imperative to keep the eyes constantly open. Be present to your own selves and to the reality around you. Read, watch, observe, and reflect. Enlarge the scope of your mental interests. Seek information about every kind of subject. That is the path leading to a simultaneous increase in knowledge and power. The most potent incentive to observe is having an interest. Being interested stimulates the imagination. Whoever is interested in a matter does not limit his self to seeing the thing in itself, but moves from there into the further step of discerning all those aspects which are related to it. A certain object, the most mundane situation, might then offer several perspectives which are pregnant with potential results. Galileo who, thanks to the swinging motion of the lamp, unravels the law of the isochronous  pendulum, Newton who, owing to the fall of an apple, discovers the law of universal gravity, Daguerre who, based on a sensitive plate which had been forgotten inside a wardrobe, develops the intuition of photographic sensitivity, Finsen who, merely by observing a cat sprawling on some roofs under the sun, gets the idea of heliotherapy, are prominent examples of the said faculty of nurturing an active interest. They were able to find study material where people had failed for centuries to detect anything out of the norm.
In order to attain this faculty of observation, man must go back to be a child. He must, in other words, rediscover the capacity to experience wonderment, the desire to incessantly ask himself, whatever the situation, about the «why» behind what is being witnessed. Another strategy consists in learning from everyone. Every person, indeed, excels in some thing or the other. 
Exercise 42 – Emulating 
Look at successful achievers. Imagine the possibility that your body, your cells, might learn the modus operandi of such successful achievers. Remember, it is your inward essential being which learns and assimilates, as opposed to your egotistic self. We will take up this exercise again in the next chapter, in order to lend even greater efficacy to the action.
Knots are meant to be loosened
Many people have the tendency of formulating extremely long-term plans, or to allow themselves to be intimidated by the fact that certain results appear to extend too far into the future. You should still put the method into practice. Identify a particular path, and, even more significantly, visualize the shortest possible route. Every time that you retrace your steps through the different stages, so as to give birth to your life plan and the ancillary plans which go along with it, you will realize that the results are near at hand, and you will come upon new solutions. This is due to the fact that life consists of moments, whereupon you will find out that, once you have set yourself in motion, results are going to materialize far more quickly than what you might have imagined at first. A mind which is ever more focused, in fact, might be able to perceive opportunities which initially eluded its attention. In addition, the abovementioned method has an impact on chance, and you will discover that events which are often unexpected will lend you a helping hand.
Developing more than one path
We have conferred the name “ideal” on what represents the exteriorization, on the level of the imagination, of your initial impulse. One aspect we would like to draw your attention to is the inclination towards unique, grandiose and inflexible conceptions. What we recommend in this regard is to avoid building up a level which is like a single long flight of stairs leading to one top exclusively. You should rather be knowledgeable in the art of dreaming frequently and gladly. 
For the sake of granting satisfaction to the mind, in the light of the right and correlated duty which each one of us has to look beyond the fence, we would advice you to devise a project which is centred on traversing different paths and studying new combinations, by driving forward the analysis of the most daring dreams with the same calm with which you would approach the most trivial realities. Why would that preclude, in fact, the materialization of something good? You should multiply your conscious forces through the help of the unconscious.
What might be called daydreaming is, after all, nothing other than the faculty of speedily transcending, in one’s imagination, the stages which are interposed between an aspiration, a goal, and the departure point where we are presently located. The spirit of the «daydreamer», as if by some kind of telepathic vision, can discern how he is eventually going to be once he will have reached the desired goal.
Freeing time from its shackles 
One obstacle that a certain type of person might need to confront is the fact that, when he reviews the past and thinks over something again, he might get the impression of being still encumbered by negative emotions which hold him back. Such emotions might in some cases preclude him from perceiving new opportunities. In this connection, the next exercise is very helpful and assists one in ridding himself of the ghosts from his past:
Exercise 43 – Stare at a light in front of you. Thirty seconds later, close your eyes and bring them into a state of ocular convergence. Keep on imagining that light penetrates inside you and gathers by the nape, until it manages to give shape to a sphere. Imagine (always keeping the eyes, however, in a posture of convergence, and thus “knowing” rather than “observing”) that the sphere of light were to pay a visit to events from both the past and the future. Open your eyes. If you have succeeded in implementing the exercise without abandoning ocular convergence at the time when the sphere was visiting the events, you will experience a pleasant sensation.

Light – Imagined sphere
Diagram of the exercise on «freeing time»

How to practically build one’s plan: From today to the future
We must know where we are and where are we starting from. The life plan is not some fantasy castle. Rather, it is imperative that it should rest solidly on the reality of our current circumstances, on the possibilities which life is actually granting us, and on our subjective aspirations-inclinations, which likewise consist, as such, in a reality. We might be able to demarcate three phases in the process of defining the life plan.
 
Phase 1 – We should ask ourselves, concerning every area of our life, 'What positive feature do we possess here?’, ‘Which are the resources that are currently available to my person?’, ‘Which is the direction the Universe is pointing me towards at present?’. Let us avoid posing to ourselves negative questions which would have the effect of blocking us. Let us rather identify the resources we can count on at the present moment.
Current State
Ideal State
Physical (Health)
Physical (Health)
Economic
Economic
Cultural/Spiritual
Cultural/Spiritual
Relationships
Relationships
Pleasures
Pleasures
Phase 2: Let us give an answer to the question, ‘What we would like to have or be? Sure, the life plan we must draw ought to be broad and optimistic, and we must wholeheartedly will to bring it off successfully and reach the final goal. 
Phase 3: In addition to envisioning the ultimate goal in our mind, we must then dream up the means which enable us to arrive at it. «Dreaming up the means» bears the meaning of plunging ourselves into such a contemplative state that the sequence of the links in the chain can be gone through quickly, without encountering any obstacle along the way. 
Exercise 44 – Dreaming up the means - method 1 
Look at a light – Close your eyes and “dream up” your aim. See it inside the light, or behind it, in any event within a setting in which this light is present (It might even consist in a lamp). Proceed as if you were retracing your steps, immersed at this stage in your imagination, and letting yourself feel somewhat certain of arriving at destination. Open your eyes, and enjoy the feeling of satisfaction by linking it to your body (in a state of self-awareness thereof). This exercise is also good if one wants to conquer his worries. 
Exercise 45 – Dreaming up the means - method 2  
This exercise is quite similar to the previous one, the only difference being the fact that, instead of releasing a slight conviction that we are going to reach the goal, we are going to repeat the act of observing the light a number of times (ranging from two to three), and each time we are going to record in writing whatever idea might occur to our mind. We will notice that a logical sequence of phases will manifest to us.
Exercise 46 – Dreaming up the means – the mirror 
Place yourselves in front of a mirror, so close to it that your vision is actually going to be blurred. While in that state, view a movie of whatever you desire.
The paradigm shift
One objection that might be raised is that, as we proceed further, we might discover new opportunities which are going to nullify the usefulness of our current planning. That is indeed so. It is likewise true, however, that such novel opportunities would hardly have been noticed had our mind not already been set in motion in a particular direction.  The paradigm shift, the opportunity wherein we might possibly double the results we are going to reap, is in actual fact a creative activity, and as such it conforms to the rule governing creative activities in general: 1) Concentration in one particular direction, 2) rest/reassessment, and 3) fresh ideas. Without the initial concentration, in the absence, that is, of a plan which you have already begun to execute, you cannot possibly discover new ideas concerning it. Many people live life waiting for the “grand idea”. The problem is that the grand idea is but a natural by-product of our mind, and can only materialize after this mind has put some small ideas into practice and has successfully accomplished them. It is as if the Universe was going to give us more, as if it was going to progressively strengthen our energy the more we venture inside it. Besides, if we were not already accustomed to “doing”, we would not be able to translate the “grand idea” into practice even if it were to face us directly, inasmuch as the “muscle of active doing” would be atrophied. When, conversely, the person who follows the method of this book formulates a “grand idea”, he is able to recognize it for what it is and to give practical effect to it. 
Obstacles
Yet another observation one might express is that, even though we might plan, obstacles are indisputably duty-bound to arise in the realm of reality. What would then be the purpose of dreaming of an itinerary which might actually turn out to be different? Well, it serves the function of firmly entrenching in us this most  important conviction, namely, that obstacles merely represent the accessory, and that the successful achievement is a certain reality so long as we want it, given that the concatenation has been proven to be a logical one. The faculty of “foretelling” is immensely helpful even with regard to what the self-persuading element which is implied by premonition. Whoever has set himself in motion as a result of having dreamt a particular state, will come across a far lesser number of difficulties on the path of its actualization. By continuously keeping inside ourselves, through “daydreaming”, a vision of our “own self” as being modified, the modification will then end up materializing in a most natural manner, through stages which are unperceivable,  though each one of them is “sparked into being” (so to speak) at the right moment. After all, if one pays notice to how easy it is to induce in ourselves a form of muscular automatism by starting from the premise of a self-persuasive movement, it ought to be concluded a fortiori that a cerebral, ideational automatism is going to occur.  Just as, — in order to make things clearer to ourselves —, it is possible to make the forearm contract irresistibly upon one's arm simply through a process of self-suggestion to the effect that “that must necessarily be accomplished”, it will also be possible, and with even greater force, to behave to our advantage in a given situation. It is nevertheless necessary to observe that, exactly in the same way that even a slightest initial motion of a “voluntary” character does facilitate the self-persuasive, automatic contraction of the forearm upon one's arm, even a most negligible “voluntary” initiative will be of extraordinary benefit to the accomplishment of the desired result. I – let us assume — predict for this afternoon the need to betake to a certain person who instils fear in me: It is necessary for me to  go and meet him at his place, inasmuch as he is the only one who can benefit my attempt to realize my purpose. It is something clear and unchallengeable that the prior visualization of the conversation with such a person, which is achieved through fantasy, concentration, and spiritual prayer, will confer near-mathematical certainty on the success of my undertaking. Were I, however, not to decide in favour of making this small voluntary effort of setting out of my house for the sake of meeting this individual, the conversation would never tale my place, and my auto-suggestion would have been an endeavour resulting in an undiluted loss.
Lastly, we can ready ourselves to deal with unexpected situations: In addition to dreaming up the means pursuant to the aforementioned specifications, we might be able to develop two additional directions, one in the event that something does not unfold itself according to expectations and the other when something pans out better than we anticipated.
Exercise 47 – Alternative imaginations
Create for yourselves an “as if” movie comprising an alternative to the previously identified means; thereafter, create for yourselves a second “as if” imagining that everything is going to turn out better than expected.
Different ideals for each person, Objectives and the life plan 
A logical life plan must enable one to live every day in his life as if it were the last. It must in fact solve the following problem: Arranging one’s life in such a way that, even if death were to truncate it at the start or in the middle of that day, life would in any event have already received a prize for its efforts.
As we have stated in the introduction to this book, not every person is the beneficiary of the gift of clearly perceiving the purpose of his existence. It is due to the aforesaid that the youth who are still going through the stage of being initiated into life, are hardly likely to talk of an ideal with the conviction that it is not going to change in the years to come. It is therefore possible to also formulate programs with a narrower range, always taking care to be connected to one's own self. Be it as it may, having an excellent friend can be a great ideal at any stage of one's life. “Act in the same way as the archer — an Eastern poet says — who, with his eye, aims much farther than the target he knows he can actually reach, since that will ensure that the arrow, pushed by the force of his desire, is going to fly as far as it can”.
Even assuming you are unable to survey your entire life, you should let yourselves project your ideal as far as is possible, and, in addition, you should bring yourselves in touch with your own individuality. The ideal of the artist cannot be the same as that of the farmer, just as the ideal of a maid cannot be identical to a soldier’s 55. Every ideal or “life plan” must be founded, first and foremost, on a full knowledge of one’s own nature and potentialities. It is, in essence, an exteriorization of something which is experienced inside one’s being. Whatever can be demanded from man is that he,— after a detached self-critique —,  should take care of trimming down his defects and simultaneously highlighting his peculiar natural gifts.
Became what you are 
(Pindar)
Coordinating and subordinating
The achievers are those who follow a vocation which originates in the depths of their beings, and which springs out of the observation of their harmonious balance with the Universe, with the result that they turn themselves into a reflection of it. Why? Because the vocation enables one to perceive the straight road ahead, which he is called upon to tread. Whoever, then, sacrifices everything to such vocation, will act almost as if in a state of somnambulism, his forces having been multiplied. In order, however, for this vocation to reach its ultimate goal, organization is required. Organizing your activity has the connotation of making profitable use of your energies. A waterfall fails to confer any strength unless and until the engineer has channelled it first. Put it differently, unless and until he organizes the power of the waterfall by directing it to a specific purpose. You must canalize your forces. Organizing bears the meaning of coordinating and subordinating. 
Coordinating: It is to lay activities in an orderly arrangement, in such a manner that not a single one of those activities gets forgotten or lost. 
Subordinating: It is to give every activity a place which is suitably proportionate to the importance it possesses within the whole. If one, for instance, were to take a vow that he would work fifteen hours a day in the hope of attaining success earlier, he would be hastening to disaster. Exhaustion and illness would not be slow to seize his being. That is because he would have neglected the aspect of his wealth at the time of defining the coordinates of the various factors he has to pay attention to.
Harmonious balance with the environment
As we are all separate individuals and yet, at the same time social individuals affiliated to a group, we are duty-bound, at the stage of drawing up a life plan, to take into account the environment wherein we are destined to live. We will notice even in this context that by adapting to that environment we will transform it to one extent or another. We are all modifiers and creators of environments. It is important to develop originality, the ability, that is, not to be absorbed by the environment and be left at the mercy of circumstances. Each one of us, in addition to the large social element in which he spends his life, has a narrower environment which is more specifically his. Whoever ends up soaked up by it entirely, without endeavouring to move from the current state to a higher one, is a human being who is laid to ruins. The environment is the raw matter we need to work on.
Many people, madly possessed by grand ideals which are theoretically valid and yet incapable of practical implementation, live in the clouds and despise the environment, in so doing failing to remember that the art of exploiting the environment for the sake of our purposes is utterly  indispensable to success. One cannot soar high without a supporting basis. 
The minor plans
We should bear in mind that the definition of the single stages is not a task which the life plan carries out, as the general life plan only determines the quality and quantity of the actions which need to be embarked upon. The life plan encompasses within its folds some ideals and directions. The way such ideals and directions are apportioned between various, more specific objectives, is something which is determined by the minor plans, in particularly by each yearly plan. 
Life plan ? ideals and directions
Minor plans ? specific objectives
As we draw up the yearly plan, we should pay regard to the program which has to be carried out in consonance with one's age, health, means, etc. It would be absurd to allocate, for example, the goal of being successfully appointed as member of parliament to the age of 20 years, assuming of course that such objective formed part of the life plan’ and it would likewise be absurd to exclude, from the plan for that age, the fulfilment of love-related aspirations, reserving all of them to the plan concerning the 70th year ! 56.
Due to all the aforesaid reasons, while we might intelligibly retain all the supreme ideals linked to our overall lifetime, it will also be of practical relevance to successfully implement some minor plans comprising minor ideals, and to do so for longer or shorter periods, the extent of which should be left to contingent circumstances to determine. For example, a student might delineate his plan until the stage of his graduation, an artist might do so until the successful completion of a particular program, and the same would hold true of a merchant, a manufacturer, etc. In essence, in conformity with what we can easily observe in respect of the periods of our life we have spent in a state of relatively immutable conditions, which are then suddenly followed by uncertainty, we shall limit ourselves to laying out a plan for one such period. This period might extend to a single year or it might encompass a 10 years' span.
Even in the latter case, it would still be convenient to divide the plan into a number of segments, and thus articulate it as a series of minor plans. The ideal time unit shall often consist in one year.
We might then sub-divide the annual plan into 12 monthly plans, each one of them being subdivided in turn into weekly and— lastly — daily plans.
As we shall see here under, there is, between those who work according to this system and the people who work without any system, the same difference that exists between the person who walks on an open road and the individual who is forced to wriggle his way through a pathless forest.
The constituent elements of the life plan
A well-reasoned life plan must include all the elements making up our activity, which must combine with one another on the basis of paying due regard to their relative degrees of importance and the mutual impact they exercise on each other. We shall term these elements “frames of the self”, inasmuch as they are related to our different selves. 
Current State
Ideal State
Physical State (Health)
Physical State (Health)
Economic State
Economic State
Cultural/Spiritual State
Cultural/Spiritual State
Relationships
Relationships
Pleasures
Pleasures
How to coordinate the different frames of the self 
It would be a mistake to devote one part of our life only to a specific part of ourselves. At any given time, in fact, we represent a whole. The various frames must take turns between one another, thereby complementing each other in such a way that no one of them encroaches upon the others. Thus, neither success nor culture must prevail over the sphere of affections or the field of one's personal relationships. In a similar fashion, the spiritual side must neither be trampled upon not trampling other sides by. We would be entitled to speak, in this regard, of the fact that no one of such frames can be squeezed beyond a certain point, lest we were to experience a reduction in our performance, due to the fact that one might not otherwise witness a proper balance between the different parts of his own self.
There is, however, a frame which is both essential and of primary relevance: It is the physical frame. It is linked to the organization of one’s own physical life, and represents the indispensable foundation of everything else, the primal source of vital energy. This frame must be present at all times. The various other frames will then be spontaneously made to connect with one another, in so doing bearing well in mind the principle of “alternation”. Nay, we might even go as far as to state that satisfaction in life derives precisely from letting our unconscious assist us in setting up these frames and linking them with one another. Whichever the level at which our life is unfolding, it has to be as “multidimensional” as possible. In the course of the day we might thus seek out work plus the fulfilment of our sphere of affections plus the nurturing of cultural interests of ours. The governing concept is thus the one of the “fractal” 57.   

Health – Success – Relationships
Soul
FRAMES OF THE SELF

Health and Vitality
Our physical body is the underlying foundation of our vital energy. Any development of the human being and the results he might accomplish can only be kick-started if one sets out from man himself, and from his physical condition.  One's state of health additionally plays an important role in guaranteeing to his person self-confidence and the suitable means to attain his objectives. Mere ideals are not sufficient on their own in this connection! 
If we own a Ferrari but fail to see to its maintenance, it is doubtful that we will be capable of extracting from it the best possible performance. Voltaire has recounted that every morning he «faisait son corps», would made up his body, i.e. he would ready it for the intellectual efforts of the day. We are likewise required to «make our body», in the sense of granting it some minimal doses of attention, solicitous care, and repairs. Health and vigour are the indispensable prerequisite of every activity, be it intellectual or moral. It is only physical wellbeing which allows us to dispose of our time, as the latter is the unifying thread which life is made of.
Health lies at the basis of energy, and this is, accordingly, the element we ought to focus upon. What we mean by state of health is a state which allows us to have ardent desires, that is, to direct ourselves, with covetous passion, towards that point where we become able to release our surplus energy. Health as something to contemplate, as a goal in itself, cannot represent man’s ideal. 
Many gymnastic exercises are useful in this connection, as they are specifically devoted to the arms and the legs. Most of the exercises, however, should set about to accomplish the two following aims:
1. Straightening the back (inasmuch as the spinal column is related to nervous functions, connecting functions, that is);
2. Bringing down the abdomen and strengthening it (as it performs functions relating to nourishing the body and balancing it) 58.
Health and vitality are the foundations for giving expression to thought in the realm of reality. By norm, thought, in order to be effective, must be consistent with one's will and must express itself, from a physiological point of view, in a manner which is inherently harmonious both at the level of the cerebrospinal system and at the one of the sympathetic nerve system. Put it concisely, the entire organism must act consistently. 
In this regard, both the Westerners and the Eastern people draw attention to the important role played by man’s spinal column in such a process (This is the power of the vertical line).
From a physiological perspective, the marrow bone acts as the channel through which thinking may be able flow, by broadcasting it to the nervous system, and by simultaneously dispatching that information to the brain. Moreover, in accordance with the Indian tradition, a number of special energy areas (called chakras) are situated along the spinal column, and once such energy areas are activated in a coordinated fashion, they enable energy to manifest. Lastly, a far-reaching significance is enjoyed by the use and training of one's look. This is an aspect which is not even taken into consideration by the traditional schools, and yet has an essential role to play, since we gather our will through the way we look. The purely organic and cellular part of the being does not only need to be developed. It must in fact also be subjected to the control of the will, as the latter equally represents a manifestation of thought, in its material, physical, practically applied aspect. The base of the spinal column is the departure point of such energy, and is symbolically linked to the sign of the Aries, as a way of emphatically underlining the primal force which is located in it.  The very same concept is also present in the Indian notion of kundalini. 
A Western symbol of comparable power is the caduceus, with its two snakes wrapping themselves around a rod. Such symbol (which by the way has been adopted by a number of medical orders) directs attention towards the solar end lunar (masculine end feminine) energies which wrap themselves up around the central column.
Will bears the meaning of willing action. It denotes manifestation. Therefore, thought, by bringing about the participation of the nervous system in order to act, has likewise recourse to the will in its capacity as an agent which is able to enliven matter. 
The efficacy of such a type of will is multiplied by correct breathing. Breathing is the route through which we set our organism in motion and place it in a state of wellbeing. We will then be capable of reawakening the various functions of the brain and harmonizing the different organic functions. 
Once these concepts have been metabolized by our understanding, the most urgent problem then becomes the one of exciting and restraining our faculties, by accumulating their potency, and placing them in a state of erethism. This is a problem of difficult resolution, and yet one which is going to be taken care of by means of a kind of hygiene aimed at accomplishing two purposes:
1) The purpose of exercising our physical faculties in such a way as to perfect our animal nature;
2) The purpose of gathering energy. One has, therefore, to mentally excite his potential faculties, by debarring them from getting released in small rivulets, and by channelling them, rather, towards the achievement of a specific result within a demarcated time period. 
The time span involved, and in any event the goal to be attained, will represent an essential variable, since it is only through such route that our organism is going to preserve the energy, without absorbing it back whenever there is a surplus of it. 
Besides, since we are never allowed to know every thing, and one never reaches the end of his task but that it is already time to die, it would seem logical that the most important study has to be the study of the means by which we can extend our existence, along with the presence in us of a resolute intention to pursue those means at any cost.
As soon as you have realized that two glasses of wine per meal are enough, you should never consume three glasses of it. In a similar way, whenever you come to know that bread crumbs harm you, you must jettison their consumption for ever. 
Even in this context, you should be guided by the concept that there is a specific norm and a time for any thing. From simple qualitative determination in advance, we can move all the way down to the most minute qualitative prescriptions, and thereby set beforehand the menu for the next day, in so doing paying due heed to the variety of foodstuffs, the extent of our capacity to digest them, their selling price, etc. This pedantic work is, after all, something we should not despise in the least.
Hygiene represents the passive part of the care we should have of our own body. We must then add to it an active part: Gym work, hydrotherapy, massage, etc. Every thing that might have been stated in this field has already been said, and yet sight has been lost of just one thing, namely, that whoever wants too much will attain nothing. Rather limit yourselves to the extent which befits you, as you would then achieve maximum results. 
The frame of the Successful self
The second aspect we should take into account is the economic problem.
Whereas the speech on health might even be general, here the problem begins to move from the general sphere to the specific one.
For some people, the aim might simply be one of administering and wisely enjoying their own financial resources; for most people, however, the issue to be tackled will consist in solving the problem of earning or in developing in the first place an ambition to achieve success. 
Nearly every man ought to first examine its own professional occupation, before, that is, being legitimately allowed to cast his eye upon any other one. In one sense, all men are professionals, even though they might not actually have a business or carry out any industrial undertaking.
The student who spends most of his time at school and has set passing his exams as his goal, is a professional; a sportsman is likewise a professional, as is the housewife or the bon vivant who is mostly engrossed by the task of nurturing his social relationships. As one can see, we do not equate a person’s profession to his dominant or usual occupation. If professional activity is idealized properly, it has to deliberately aim at accomplishing two purposes:
1. Gradually improving one’s own economic conditions, along with an ultimate yearning to be set free from the need to carry out any work which is not a disinterested one; 
2. Introducing a higher element into one’s profession. Professional work, in fact, ought not to be conceived as a sequence of acts which are repeated ad infinitum and are perennially the same, but rather as a course of studies which becomes ever more complex and elevated, one, that is, which is able to integrate the relevant person’s originality further and further. Without this superior element, without this desire, a profession metamorphoses into a jail leading one to eventually curse work. Let your profession be a flight of stairs rather than a road. 
In order to find a subject worth one’s professional study, it suffices if one pays heedful regard to the truth that few people know their job deeply, and he has the concomitant ambition to be among the best. You must also direct the spirit towards creating, perfecting, incessantly searching for pathways enabling your area of specialization to enlarge its activity profitably. 
We believe that the whole problem is found inside a single word: Building.  
Working, acting, producing, this is what is needed by both the poet and the devotee of sensual pleasures, by the philosopher as much as by the winemaker, both for his own sake and for the sake of the world. We must learn the art of dreaming— that is indeed true —, but we must also master the art of exploiting our dreams productively. There is, then, yet another art we will need to grasp, namely, the art of delegating to those who are intellectually inferior to us the fulfilment of those exigencies which are merely a means and not a goal of our activity. We are called upon, in other words, to learn how to always judge whether we are not actually able to do something better, something more useful, of a higher level than what we are engrossed with, by simply entrusting to our subordinates the preoccupation of physically bringing us the bricks with which to construct the building. Whoever dies without having expended everything he could have given has lived in vain. In order, however, to live fully, we ought to probe our own selves and organize our activity. We have to do that in order to manage activity as wisely as possible, and the wisest way, indeed, coincides with the bravest one. True, whoever walks might even stumble, and yet he moves forward; as for the one who is stuck to his seat, he will always find himself in exactly the same place, without ever advancing, and will become fed up with his immutable place, whether it is a heap of litter or a comfortable couch. 
Even  professional activity can — and in fact should — be considered as if it represented one single and progressively evolving task leading to an ultimate goal, which should be as lofty as possible, ennobled by one’s ideal, and kept alive by the concrete interest one has in attaining it. Daily life, in that event, would no longer be the same throughout, and will rather signal a progress compared to the work of the day before and a prefatory step towards the one of the following day. The conscious awareness of creating something useful or pleasant must always be infixed in our mind, as it would thereby make work cheerful and light. This conscious awareness is going to make us forget the materiality of the acts which the relevant work consists of, as those acts would no longer be a goal in themselves but only a means to an end. We will, in short, view professional work more through the spirit of the glutton who, as he prepares some tasteful meal, gladly endures the tedium of cleaning, mixing, frying, and greasing, because he can taste in advance the fruit of his patient and sagacious work.
It is within the ambit of this section of intellectual activity that the economic aspect, as indicated before, finds its place. Economic aspirations, too, vary remarkably from person to person. When one says jokingly that money does not make one happy, although to own money is a form of happiness, he is making a statement which is partly true and partly false. It is true inasmuch as wealth, or at least a state of material comfort, can alone enable one to fully taste life, which, conversely, is so monotonous and painful for the indigent people; it is at the same time false, because wealth has no fixed boundary, such that one either moves from unhappiness to happiness or turns from happy to happier depending on whether or not he has crossed it.  From an economic point of view, the happy person is he who owns sufficient means to appease his range of appetites. Each one of us has a specific capacity to enjoy, which is limited by one’s physical constitution, age, temperament, and mental inclinations. The fiery, active temperaments which manifest themselves positively are in general in greater need of money than the passive, submissive and contemplative temperaments.
Development of soul and spirit
Moving back to the sphere of intellectual activity, it is worth discussing in this context, in addition to one's professional activity, which we have already hinted at, the so-called disinterested activity, i.e. activity of our choice and activity devoted to developing the spirit. If we want to evolve, we must become enriched in our spirit. Among other things, this self-enrichment might in turn lead us to useful ideas which will produce greater wealth for our finances as well as for our relationships, due to the correspondence which exists between several interests and different ways of establishing communication with other people.
As the issue is one relating to the need of establishing a profitable plan of intellectual work, it will be first of all convenient to carry out a meticulous examination of our intellectual tendencies as well as our shortcomings. More often than not, our shortcomings are dependent on our intellectual inclinations, inasmuch as it is such subjective tendencies which lure us into delving more deeply into certain fields of knowledge at the expense of others which are either neglected or totally ignored!
After we have fulfilled our general cultural needs, we will take care to satisfy our preferred intellectual activity, whenever this activity is not the same as our professional activity. This elective activity might represent our refugium, our sanctuary, and the source of our purest satisfactions.
Ideally one should be able to tread a proportionally inverse path between professional activity and elective activity, in such a manner that, as we go on with our life, we progressively free ourselves from our professional activity and we are gifted the chance of consecrating ourselves to the elective one with stronger determination.
One should, of course, avoid the risk of a program which is so crammed that it leaves him no spare time to devote to some casual or fashionable forms of culture we should always take care to be at least informed about: Reading newspapers or magazines, attending conferences, and so on.
In short, what we propose to do for our own culture is the opposite of what is generally done at present. What is harmful is to waste time reading too many newspapers and magazines of no significance, tasteless novels, vulgar works, and, worse than all of them, the vice of browsing here and there at the first printed words which fall into our hands, or of losing ourselves in the news by watching over and over again the same information we have already become conversant with. 
The arenas of feelings and interpersonal relationships 
Our sentimental activity leads us into the depths of individuality, into those recesses where we are truly ourselves, ignored by the rest, inaccessible to anybody else inside our tight bag which separates us from the Universe.
What avails in this arena, more than a program of action, is to find an “ideal frame”. What is it that we want? Which type of relationship is the one we desire?
Each one of us gives tangible expression to his own sentimental and moral self within a specific conception of the world. At the same time, if he is not watchful over himself, he runs the risk of manifesting that self through acts which are often totally antithetical to what he outwardly proclaims. It is necessary to remember that, when we face other than ourselves, we essentially fade in accordance with how we actually deal with them, and that neither this nor that exteriorized declaration will be of any value unless it is reflected in our acts. Every one of us, on the other hand, represents a freely choosing individuality, as such having an unrestricted capacity to imagine what would be the best for itself.
Relationships with other people 
Even the social self will change according to whether we respectively belong to the class of people who head matters, those who arrange them orderly, or the ones who are subordinate to their superiors.
We will thus end up, socially speaking, with people who are our superiors, equals or subordinates. When dealing with each one of these categories, it will be imperative to establish a specific way of living. Let us conceive in our mind the best possible situation in our interaction with each one of those three categories. When it comes to social encounters in general, every person might be a source of enrichment. Nevertheless, given that both joy and sadness are contagious feelings, we must carefully select the people whose company we keep most regularly. Spending time with a depressed, discouraged and pessimistic individual means you are going to embitter your soul for a whole day. 
Many people blessed with only a modest talent have accomplished real success by ordering their lives, consciously or otherwise, in such a manner that all the elements were able to converge to their advantage. On that basis, they have been able to surround themselves with friendly, optimistic, active people who could inspire in them confidence in success, and who could actually be subtly moved to do for them things accruing to their benefit. On the other end of the spectrum, we come across other, far more talented persons, who have failed, as they never succeeded in finding partners who could be to their liking. Such very talented failures deemed all those they met to be bad, suspicious, and malignant, simply because they themselves were like that. Let us rather try to imagine ourselves being warm and open, and to essentially trust human nature 59. 
Putting every thing together 
Now that we have studied its constituent ingredients, let us retrieve a little bit of our earlier focus on the «life plan», by placing ourselves in the position of the person who takes the resolution of setting up such plan so as to derive from it a norm capable of regulating his subsequent activity. By keeping a watchful eye on the different elements that make up the plan, you will establish the minimum programming of its future activities, taking care, in the process, especially to fulfil the need to maintain harmony between all its parts. 
What is required at this stage is not that one should establish in full detail what he would like to do from the day in question until the end of his life, but, rather more simply, to trace the direction he is going to face henceforth. If such a general orientation will be a reliable reflection of our inward being, we might then decisively promise ourselves never to deflect from it.
Each one of us is in fact born with certain innate generic tendencies. Opposing such tendencies will result in rendering them barren. By contrast, to set up conditions which favour the development of such connatural predispositions means we are going to make ourselves useful to others in the best possible manner and, at the same time, secure a happy life for ourselves. Having recourse to some elucidating examples, we might say that no skinny person will dream of becoming an athlete, nor will a natural musical talent imagine his self reaching felicity by working as a mining engineer.
There remains the problem of the eclectic persons, of those versatile souls who are devoid of a single neatly demarcated tendency. One might possibly suggest to them to study the most favourable external conditions by seeking help from their unconscious. 
Many other considerations will have to be drawn into the effort of setting up a well thought-out plan: Both the relevant external considerations (the environment in which one lives, his family and social ties, his economic possibilities, and even the political regime under which his life takes place) and, with even greater force, the personal considerations of a physical as well as a spiritual nature 60.
Commitment and pleasure
The life plan thus examined and drawn up, will thus prove to be a plan of commitments and directions. These commitments will be pleasant because they reflect our own selves, yet such commitments will have to be echoed by another program, a corresponding program of pleasures acting as background and underpinning scope of our life. Our view tends to include within the list of pleasures even the pleasure of doing: The pleasing exercise of all our activities.  We will thus have sensory and intellectual pleasures, economic, family-related and social ones. It is possible to find daily gratification for several such pleasures. This is an aspect we will need to pay utmost regard to at the stage of devising our plan. As for other pleasures within the said broad list, they might only be experienced on rare occasions, as is the case, for example, of a long trip, the purchase of a particular item, the triumphant reception of an intellectual or artistic work of hours, or a sentimental conquest. Yet a third group of pleasures to be taken into general consideration cannot but be tasted once in a lifetime or extremely seldom. As this latter category of pleasures will be in need of either a short-term or a long-term gestation, if we are truly keen to seep their flavour, we will be required to work on them bit by bit on a steady quotidian basis, so as to set out on a course towards their fulfilment. Pleasure, too, is something which ought to be planned.

How does one, however, reach true pleasure and pleasure which occurs on an ongoing basis? First of all, does it actually exist? Pain and pleasure, in fact, are two such narrow peaks that one can only be in a state of balance atop them for no more than a flashing moment 61; by contrast, happiness and unhappiness represent two states.
Normally, pleasure is experienced by many people only within the “change in state” which is the consequence of a stimulus. It is however a physiological law that repeated equal stimuli will turn the recipient organism insensitive. Accordingly, in order for pleasure to endure, what we need is either for the stimulus to be constantly stronger, or for it to be rare enough to enable the organism to welcome it as if it were a novelty. In order for one to keep on tasting pleasure, it is therefore necessary that he should have a certain mental attitude, which ensures that gratifications are not swallowed by our mind as a result of such mind viewing them as usual fare.
Gossen, who has studied the constituent elements of hedonometry, to wit, the laws to which prolonged or reiterated pleasures are subject, lays down the following rule as the essential general norm: «Any pleasure, through its iteration, has a lower initial intensity and a shorter duration than the first experiencing of it. Its intensity and time span decrease at a velocity which is commensurate with the increasingly rapid pace at which the repetitions thereof take place». The abovementioned law, after all, is merely one application of the more general law on repetition, which is a factor that enfeebles and discolours feeling. A pleasure, therefore, is such especially by virtue of its novelty.
To put it in a condensed form, pleasure behaves in the same way as time does. Accordingly, it gets swallowed by routine and appears to vanish away after a while. The person who frequents theatre once a month is spontaneously inclined to think that the subscribers taste a pleasure comparable with his which is further multiplied by the number of shows they are specifically allowed to attend by their subscriptions.  
The truth, instead, is that the subscriber ...  yawns!   The salesman who is forever travelling in no way relishes the pleasure of moving to a new place which is instead the lot falling to a student on holiday; the son of the confectioner never eats sweets. The history of people who are addicted to toxic substances, such as smokers, consumers of morphine, and alcoholics, teaches us that sensations, in order to be recharged, require increasingly bigger doses.
We can notice the following: When we consider the average human being, what represents for him the culmination of pleasure? It is the very moment when he achieves possession, nay, if it were legitimate to put it that way — the first such moment. Immediately thereafter, the descending curve begins. Why is that so? It is once again due to the same underlying reason: The fact that the tension stops. 
The pleasure of the tension subsists in the modification undergone by the body. The experts in physiology will say, through a more fastidiously specific description: Increased cardiac activity, stronger pulse, plenitude of the blood vessels, accelerated breathing, and so on and so forth.
The one who enjoys more, and thus also suffers more, is in that case he who is more sensitive to stimuli. Is there, however, a pleasure which is endlessly renewed? Yes, it exists, and it is in actual fact the one we are guiding you to through this work. Such an enduring pleasure consists, then, in being present not only to the sequence of life events (and, consequentially, to our own goal or ideal), but even to the current moment. The key to pleasure is not to be found in tension, unlike the way many people believe, but rather in attention. Pleasure is born out of the fact that one is in the present moment. It is represented by the ability to see reality as it is, to awaken ourselves to the perception of the world and thereby exit the routine, habit-driven mechanisms which debar us from experiencing wonderment. The pleasure is in the now. Tedium is solely generated when we let ourselves be taken as captives by habit, with the result that we then enter a state of automatic mechanisms. The key to serenity, therefore, is to taste pleasure in the now. According to this vision of things, the only existing desire is the logical, active desire which is on its way to actualization. It is, in other words, the knowledge that a certain thing becomes actualized, whereupon we set the organism in motion. An unreal or impossible desire is, for that very reason, a lifeless desire, one which is divested of dynamic virtue. I do not desire to go to the moon. The desires which, at this stage, fall outside my reach leave me unmoved. 
In conclusion, it must be stressed that joy does not lie in things, but in organic receptiveness and in our capacity to be heedful to whatever exists in the moment. This is what grants access to true happiness, which is more than the mere sum- total of pleasures. It is in fact a general organic condition, a disposition to experientially feel pleasure, a sensibility which is orientated towards pleasure, and a spiritual mood which derives enjoyment from all of that. It is nature enjoying its own self, and leading therefore to the pleasure ensconced in the now, as well as in becoming impassive to pain.
Secondary plans and subordinate plans
We will thus get a first differentiation between the execution of the operations which we will need to carry out during a specific period of our existence, whence the imperative requirement of subdividing the general life plan into several secondary plans that are subordinated to it and in which alone — we ought to reiterate — they find their entire reason of being.
As we have stated earlier, one can extrapolate from the whole plan a smaller portion which is limited to the execution of a particular program, one which is circumscribed, that is, to the specific necessities associated with a given stage of our life. That does not detract from the enduring benefit and logic of an annual subdivision of the general plan, which retains therefore an essential role. Moreover, as the year comprises its own natural subdivisions, the subdivisions into months, weeks and days, we are going to break down the yearly plan, in turn, to monthly, weekly and daily plans.
As they narrow down, these plans are going to correspondingly find their concrete actualization, thereby becoming progressively more subdivided into actions which are related to the needs of the moment.
However, every plan, regardless of its proportions, will have to be established by linking it strictly both to the earlier and to the later plans, and, in particular, to the general life plan. In fact — as already stated here above — every action only draws its value and its full justification from such overall life plan. 
Creating this correlation is in actual fact easy: Once you have devised the largest plan, and you view it “as a movie”, it is then sufficient to “cut out” from it progressively smaller divisions. 
Strategy, tactics and intuition
Tactics play an important role in the execution of the minor plans and the daily plan. In other words, differently from the life plan, we might be able to foresee certain elements which are not essential at the general level, and yet might avail the accomplishment of our aims. Why are tactics important? Their importance is due to the fact that they grant us the opportunity of better exploiting our available resources. If I am a soccer coach blessed with a side of technically formidable players in each position of the field, and I have at my disposal, in addition, alternatives who are equally gifted from a technical point of view, and yet I make the wrong tactical moves, my team risks losing the match even if, on paper, it is the stronger of the two sides. 
Assuming that, in the course of a particular game, when things appear to be turning against my side, I have an “intuition” and opt to substitute a certain player with specific technical characteristics with another one whose technical characteristics are different we might end up winning that match. 
It cannot be said that, in absolute terms, this substitute will make me win all the games. We can however assert that in that particular game he was the right player at the right time. What are the steps available to us if we want to implement some tactics which will turn us into winners? 
We can achieve that through intuition!
Intuition emerges from our inward.  
It is through its medium that we can make pragmatic use of all our resources, so as to succeed in achieving whatever we wish. 
Ask yourselves daily, after you have correctly defined what you truly want, that is, your genuine objective: “In how many ways can I successfully utilize my resources in order to obtain a higher result, and which should these ways actually be?”. The essential point is that we must strongly will to attain something important; we need to possess the resources to do that; and we should stimulate our unconscious mind for the sake of intuitively understanding how we ought to act. You have to be able to utilize your unconscious.
“Learn to create a void, silence, darkness and calm inside your spirit, and then lay in it the seed of a voluntary or intellectual idea, with the specific intention that this seed should develop inside your unconscious side and yield its fruit at the moment you have demarcated beforehand”.
Naturally, one cannot reach that result all of a sudden. One will inevitably need long and systematic training sessions, which are in themselves neither difficult nor mysterious. What is required, therefore, consists in getting accustomed to an ever higher level of self-collectedness, and in transforming our will into Prediction, into prayer we would almost be tempted to say. The following exercise helps us bring that about:
Exercise 48 – Look at a light. Ask yourselves an open-ended question, such as, ‘I wonder in how many different ways I can solve this problem”. Close your eyes and observe the luminous trace. Let the solutions surface to your mind.
The daily plan: Its constituent elements.
Let us move now to the analysis of the daily plan, since the intermediate plans — annual, monthly, weekly — are made up of the same elements which the daily plan consists of. In particular, the weekly plan might prove more useful than the other ones for the purpose of coordinating the various frames of the self, due to the fact that certain activities are carried out better when one undertakes them on some specific days of the week.  Going back to the purpose of the daily plan, such purpose should be defined as being able to think of the present day fully and live it 100%.
Life is in fact made up of days. On each day of your life, you should first create a state of emotional calm, and follow that up by saying to yourselves: "What am I going to do today in order to approximate the ideal I have set for myself?”. The duty you are going to envision, as you pose the said question to yourselves, should not be something abstract. It must be a concrete vision of your duty in this regard: Doing this, doing that, doing this before tackling that, but in any case doing, as opposed to you thinking of doing.
Today’s activity must be connected, at least partially, to the ones of yesterday and tomorrow; otherwise you will walk through life as an inebriated person, incapable as such of moving forward. It is here that the beneficial usefulness of the plan lies. Once, however, — the general orientation of your daily activity has been demarcated —, you should stop worrying about what you are going to do next. 
Planning so as to live in the now
Whoever summons what is useful to each and every hour of his life, and who regulates his day as if it was his whole life, neither desires tomorrow nor fears it  (Seneca)
Fence your today with a high wall devoid of any exit point, and fight against the enemies of your today 62. Inverting the famous aphorism, we would suggest «not to do today what you should do tomorrow». Even in this sense, you must tell yourselves that tomorrow does not exist, that tomorrow is an invention.
In order to live harmoniously, you should avoid, in the morning, to hastily plunge into the heart of that particular day, as it would then commence without any preparatory phase. You must first of all perceive your own selves, feel your own existence, in so doing letting go of every blocked emotion. Secondly, you should start by asking yourselves which is the most urgent daily task that is looming ahead of you, and by accurately examining the details of that specific task pursuant to the said prioritizing. What we have set out here above represents the nucleus around which all your actions for that day should ultimately gather.
Exercise 49 – This is a life habit which should be adhered to each and every morning. It is better to act by it as soon as our brain is awake, as our brain has not yet fallen back into the mechanisms by which it usually functions: It is thus possible, at that early stage, to easily issue to ourselves the instructions for that day. One of the most important things to do is to organize your time well. While you keep your eyes closed, and you maintain a steady state of relaxation, you should then devise a plan of action for the day. You must imagine yourselves achieving success in the actions you are going to undertake. Lastly, in the event that you want to additionally increase your level of efficiency when carrying out this exercise, you should take some deep breaths and think of the energy penetrating inside you as you inhale air.
Do not overload the plan «in abstracto». Avoid, that is, the trap of creating fictional duties. You should rather create for yourselves real commitments (one must obligatorily have the mindset of being under a duty to will). You must also try and gather similar activities together, since they might create synergy. You will then discover, to your surprise, that through this simple practice events will materialize on the basis of the conscious awareness of them which you would have felt, and successfully so. 
How to Program things daily 
What is even more comprehensive and useful is to plan your evening in advance, and not just the morning. You must see yourselves acting during the next day already. You must define the hours of such acting beforehand, and determine what you should do in any one of them. Even during the night, indeed, your mind is operating in a creative mode, and it will thus supplement and complete the aims you would have set for yourselves in the evening.  
Your daily undertakings will then result from the following elements 63:
1. They will result from the various major plans: Life plan, annual plan, monthly plan, and weekly plan, as far as what concerns the minimum program is concerned.
2. They will result from that which you have neglected to carry out from your earlier plans.
3. They will result from the critical analysis of the day which has just drawn to an end.
4. It will result from examining the diverse frames of the self.
With regard to the sphere of practical application, what we suggest is to keep in front of your selves, or at least to simultaneously visualize, the monthly and weekly plans branching out of the annual plan and being related in turn to your life plan.
When, of course, the monthly plan, or, even better, the weekly one, has been thoroughly drawn up, it will seldom happen that you will be forced to resort to the major plans. Simply casting a glance at those major plans might however be an effective source of motivation and remind you of the meaning behind what you are doing.

Review
Keep note in writing of the things you should do. In that fashion, you will further be able to review your previous plans as well. This scrutiny performs the following functions:
1. It will bring back to memory actions we had neglected to implement in the past;
2. It will allow us to mentally relive that part of our life which has already elapsed, and hand us the suitable elements by which to conduct a critical appraisal of the day that has just gone by.
The analysis of the day which is drawing to a close is a kind of accounting exercise that — precisely as it happens in respect of drawing up company balance sheets — has the effect of ideally determining the direction which our future activity is going to take, and highlighting the weak points, the mistakes which have been made, and the liabilities which have been incurred.
What is being said here on the subject of critically examining one's day, might  — and in fact should with even greater force, be repeated with the weekly, monthly and yearly plans, so as to be able to formulate one's subsequent plans.
This critical examination has to be done punctiliously, day after day.
Reflecting well over a day that has gone by carries the meaning of reviewing it attentively, always bearing in mind in the process the highest plan, which is the life plan. Every evening, without fail, our daily activity should be examined on the basis, not on the judgment of the outside world, but rather on the judgment which is dictated by our own consciousness. Such consciousness must be essentially non-emotional, and rather directed at the discovery of new solutions and spaces for all those instances in which we have lost self-consciousness and we have “forgotten” what we truly wanted to achieve.
Exercise 50 – A most useful exercise consists in what is called “reverse visualization”. In essence, we look at our day backwards, moving from the last event of that day back to the first one. By moving backwards, we will realize the extent to which we were actually free even though we were failing to realize that truth. The exercise might be conducted over longer periods, such as a full week. NB:  The repeated implementation of this exercise also produces an improvement in our memory.
The critical analysis of the day is as indispensable a tool as the balance sheet, and in any event — for purposes of the method — neither of them has any meaning without the other, so long as, at least, one wants the past to act as teacher of the present. At the initial stage of applying the method, the critical examination must be extremely thorough. It must come out as if it were a true confession, guided by a spirit of rectification rather than one of mere ascertainment of facts. The form assumed by this exam will thus be interrogative in nature. A few schematic annotations will fix the results of such analysis in a stable, standard form.
We will lastly move onto the examination of the frames of the self.
What we have put up in these frames consists in the schematic portrayal of what might happen to be the object of our activity, both from the physical and from the intellectual, economic, sentimental, family-related and social domains, as well as that activity of ours which is devoted to the fulfilment of pleasures.
The cardinal rule for being able to derive from our method the whole profit one can expect from it is the rule of identifying, of concretely embodying as much as possible. Every point must suggest to us some concrete thing to do or to refrain from doing, some usual action which stands in need of correction, in such a way that life might turn into a voluntary work, one when man, instead of drifting around aimlessly and going astray, sets his sight on a specific goal, and accordingly directs his every effort towards it, taking advantage in the process of whatever might prove useful, while eschewing every thing which might accrue to his detriment.
Each one of these frames, as it adapts to individual requirements, must necessarily expand and deepen in such a way that nothing is going to elude one’s investigation. In fact, even a most tiny point which is ordinarily neglected might one day become most useful, with the result that the earlier overlooking of it would be shown to have been extremely noxious.
Practical formulation of the daily plan 
Having gathered all the necessary elements, we will now turn our attention to the issue of how one goes about formulating his daily plan.
From our perusal of all the abovementioned plans and our critical analysis of the day we have just spent, we would have extracted certain annotations which are now required to be weighed up with a sagacious eye, either by discarding something or by adding one element, and especially by allocating every action where it belongs, to its appropriate time, i.e., the precise place and moment where the implementation thereof might prove to be easier, readier, and more certain to occur.
In order for orderly formulation to be facilitated, we have imagined a format which every one of us is able to draw up for himself.
A nice aid consists, in fact, in forcing yourselves to jot down in writing your views on a particular issue. The act of writing prevents the occurrence of mental dispersion: Seeing the result of one’s reflective thinking concretely embodied on paper obliges one to fix his attention upon the relevant subject matter.
Writing ? First concrete embodiment
 
We are now going to supply you with two possible variants on how to prepare the plan, namely, a simplified version and a comprehensive one. 

In the simplified version, you will limit yourselves to writing down the things which need to be done in accordance with their required order of execution, and you will thus tick them off one by one as you go on finalizing them. 
As for the comprehensive version, a double page will be consecrated to each day. The left part of the double page is divided into two distinct sections. In the first part, you will note down all the operations which should be embarked upon, based on what will be highlighted by the plan for the next day, the formulation of which we have just explained to you. The operations which need to be repeated periodically or the predetermined long-term operations (holidays, trips, greetings to be sent, etc) might be noted down in advance, taking care to link each one of them to its own scheduled day.
The operations might possibly have to be noted down in accordance with the sequential order in which they should be carried out.
It is important to plan in our mind the order to follow in executing the different operations. That is due to the fact that, in that way, such operations are going to be carried out in a sequential order, whereas, otherwise, there might be a tendency to postpone the more complex actions sine die. 
Having recourse to the method of writing, we will mark down in the morning the sequential order in which the first operations of the day will have to be carried out.  In the event of the supervening emergence of some new operation for the day, such new operation will be noted down below the list of the other operations. It might possibly happen that this operation which has been noted down last will be required to be carried out prior to some of the previously listed ones. The said numbering of it would then only serve the purpose of marking its natural place, that is to say, the most suitable moment to execute it. Other people might draw advantage from the stratagem of simply noting down, in the apposite small column, the hour in which each operation has to be carried out, as opposed to its sequential number. One is after all dealing with one and the same concept, namely, how to demarcate the right place for every particular operation. In the second small column, one will have to mark with a cross those operations which have already been finalized. Avoid, in that manner, the possibility of erasing from the list those operations which have been already carried out, as we are duty-bound to locate them subsequently, at the time, that is, of analytically revisiting the whole day.
The change in the order of operations might even be the product of the type of activity involved. Every activity in fact inevitably demands a particular mental attitude, and it is thus preferable to carry out that activity which best suits the mental attitude we might have at any given moment. The converse is likewise true. Be it as it may, the various points must have been exhaustively gone through by the end of the day.
The second part of the page is occupied by a column in which one is going to set out those occupations which have to be implemented within an undefined time span, as the need for them progressively arises. It will be up to us to assign to them a precise position within our future activity. This column, too, is preceded by a small column which is destined to serve the purpose of indicating, by placing a cross next to each relevant operation, all the various operations as they gradually find their own definitive location within the plan.
Useful questions relating to the Formulation of the Plans
1. Which part of the life plan am I going to accomplish today (or during the current year or this month)? This represents the minimal program, which every thing must be subordinated to, having regard to the circumstances and trying to exploit them so as for them to serve our purpose.
2. Which are the actions, therefore, that I should carry out in order to realize this part of the life plan? (This makes up the basic underlying layer of the daily plan). Subordinately: Being unable, due to the presence of special contingent circumstances, to accomplish anything by which I might progress towards the fulfilment of my life plan, what can I at least do not to be distanced from its actualization? Alternatively, what am I in a position to do which is at least useful to my person?
3. Attend to the task of perusing your previous life plans, in so doing noting down whichever parts of them had been left unfinished.
4. Turn now your attention to the critical analysis of the day that has just drawn to an end, always taking care to record your annotations.
5. At this stage, move to the consideration of the various frames of the self and the frame of pleasures you seek after.
6. In addition to the different frames, you should provide a daily answer to the under-mentioned questions:
What can I do today which I had never done, seen, heard, or experienced before?
Is my life too monotonous?
Might it be that it is too selfish?
Too materialistic?
Too frivolous?
Or that it is excessively sacrificed?
7. Which order am I going to follow in carrying out the actions which the analysis of the six aforesaid points have consequentially revealed to be necessary (Please ensure that you distribute the various tasks in accordance with the easiest and most logical order, whereupon you will set about to record them in writing)?
Additional suggestions for Perfecting one’s daily plan 
At the top of a written plan, we might draw two frames. In the left one we are going to mark the date; as for the right frame, we will reserve it for some motto linked to “kairòs”, to what we would like to conjure up during the day. It will be some verbal summation, some reminder pointing us to the spiritual tendency which we ought to adhere to throughout that specific day.  As this tendency is going to be reviewed several times in the course of a single day, it will eventually imprint a specific mark in our psychological activity, that is, the distinguishing mark which ought to colour with its peculiar hue our soul, our character, irrespective of the external events of the day. One can premeditate such mental attitude the night before, by evoking it at the time when our spirit is gathered in itself 64.
We are lastly going to reserve some space for two additional elements. Space should be made, in one section, for annotations which will be useful for our future activity: Orientations, thoughts, reflections, calculations, etc, as the case might be. 
Another part shall be devoted to receive, every evening, a synopsis of the material and spiritual occurrences of the relevant day; a most concise diary which should not exclude — with regard to whoever loves to keep it — the possibility of a far more comprehensive diary.
Each day has its own peculiar sentimental hue, which is only partly dependent on extrinsic events. The colour of any such day is set by our physical disposition, by our aspirations about the future, in short, by an assortment of plentiful different factors. What should be noted down in this regard is precisely our general mood or state of being, what in other words differentiates that day from any other day. 
As it subsequently goes through such notes, our thought must perform two tasks:
A) A sentimental task — one, that is, of sheer mental re-enactment — 
B) A critical task — by in other words examining, under the detached light of a time interval, if and how one might have done things better, and thus whether or not we have laid to waste the energy we had been blessed with on that specific day.

Managing energy in the course of the day
In order to reach our daily objectives, a further essential requirement is to accurately manage our energy. The plan will have to take that factor into consideration. It is imperative, for the sake of attaining the highest degree of efficiency, that the different actions we are called upon to carry out should in fact be programmed in such a way as to bear in mind the energy that is factually available to us, as the level of that energy is never the same, nor is it of an invariably similar kind.  
Energy in cyclical form
Many people work indefatigably, until they feel tired and cannot go on any more. This is, however, nothing other than an improper use of forces, one which, moreover, occasions a significant waste of time, given that, when we are worn out, our productivity becomes progressively lower. Too often we spend energy in a linear way, that is, without subsequent recoveries, until we reach breaking point. It is instead necessary to espouse a CYCLICAL system of managing energy. It is in other words important to define certain temporal moments in which we carry out some specific operation, with a view never to reaching breaking point. Two principles are essential in this regard:
1. The principle of oscillation and rhythm
2. The principle of effort
The principle of oscillation: Nothing is constant in the world. Even as regards the energy field, it would be more correct to speak of “wave” and “flux”. One of the essential aspects consists in alternating periods of activity with periods of rest. In order to maintain a strong energy, we inevitably need to learn how to spend our energy rhythmically. 
Energy which is managed cyclically (alternation) is far stronger than linear energy (concentration without any rest).
The principle of the effort: In order to create capacity and to acquire ever greater efficacy, we must transcend our ordinary limit, the way athletes do, and to subsequently grant ourselves some periods of rest. In order to apply this principle of oscillation effectively, it might be useful to work in a “multidimensional” way, by examining the physical, mental and emotional dimensions of man.
Physical dimension: It has the meaning of paying due observance to the cycle of wakefulness – rest / nourishment - action / dynamics of breathing. In this specific case, we shall distinguish energy in conformity with its “volume”.
Mental Dimension: It corresponds to the utilization of our mind’s higher faculties. Our two brain hemispheres, which we might deem to be linked to logic, fantasy and imagination, display a natural alternation. It is not always the case that an identical activity is carried out at the same level of efficacy throughout the day.
Emotional dimension: It touches on that aspect of life which has to do with interpersonal relationships: To which extent are we dependent on others? How much are we independent? (Independence # relationship). In this context, we shall distinguish energy in terms of positive type-negative type. 
Spiritual dimension: You should alternate individual and group activities, spirituality and materiality, and to be connected with your own purposes.
CYCLICAL CONTROL OF ONE’S OBJECTIVES
Cyclically realizing what we have done up to a certain point in time in order to attain a particular aim, has the effect of strengthening that aim of ours. The mind necessitates an alternation of effort and reward. Being grateful to ourselves for whatever has been accomplished at any particular stage enables us to improve the quantity of available energy.
INVOLVEMENT AND NON-INVOLVEMENT
In order to maintain an adequate level of involvement in a certain activity, it is useful to alternate involvement in it with periods of non-involvement.
GROUND RULES
Basing what we should do on our energy more than the available time is the key to obtaining results
As one’s energy capacity diminishes if used too little or too much, we must learn how to balance the expenditure of one's energy with its subsequent retrieval
In order to create capacity, we have to go beyond our usual limits
The understanding of the simple principles we have just illustrated to you will enable you to increase your VITALITY. The mind is only capable of functioning in a quantum way if it is related to a vital person. It is a known fact that low energy people easily fall prey to recurrent thoughts. We must examine our energy level, as the closest and simplest solution is frequently found there. Just as a Formula One car cannot even cover one meter without fuel, an individual with low energy is in exactly the same position. Furthermore, putting into practice, in the course of your life, even the small advices we have laid out here above, is very often sufficient to change the quality of that life.
Effective praxis – Some useful rules
In order, therefore, for the implementation of the daily plan to prove truly effective, it will need:
1. To be suitable to possible unexpected events and situations, and
2. to always empower the maximum exteriorization of energy.
Generally speaking, changing activity represents a waste of time as it demands a “renewal of concentration”. If, for instance, you are busy planning something, or writing an article, and you get a phone call, you will need approximately seven minutes to renew your concentration on what you were engrossed with prior to that call. 
You must pay due observance to the “principle of oscillation”. Our mind follows its own specific rhythms, and it will accordingly function more logically during certain minutes, while being more imaginative during others. As a general rule, the time span of oscillation lasts 45 minutes. 
Effective praxis - summary
All that has been said so far might be condensed in the following precepts: 
I. Do in every moment the best thing you can do. You ought in each and every moment to do, invariably and prior to any thing else, what might not be done at a different moment. Which of the necessary undertakings best suits this exact moment?
II. Understand the “type of activity”. There are some activities which wear out one part of the brain more than others, while a different set of activities has the effect of tiring another part of the brain more. An illustrating example might consist in studying or doing some accounting and keeping ties with other human beings (phone calls, etc). If you alternate these activities, which is actually the method you should adopt, you will always enjoy the maximum level of efficiency.
III. Being conscious of time. The watch might dictate the way work is going to be done. If you foresee yourselves having a certain amount of time at your disposal, you should immediately choose to give preference to the work which fits the available time best, the way a certain shoe fits one's feet the most. If you are unable to choose the work to be done, make at least sure to choose the part of it which you like to see accomplished within the time at your actual disposal.
IV. Prepare the ground. Do not ever undertake any manual or intellectual work without having first surrounded yourselves with all the tools you might need in the course of executing it.
V. As much as you can, subdivide the available time and the work that needs to be done into smaller units of time or work which are capable of being successfully completed. Thereafter, you should consider the first such unit of time as having been already occupied by the first work, as being no longer available for any other undertaking, that is. In doing so you will have to refuse, «as much as possible» (i.e. through a struggle with other people or with your own selves), to utilize the time differently; you must learn how to say, both to your own selves and to others, 'I must do this', 'I cannot do anything apart from this.'  
VI. Get used to carry out the work you have to do with the utmost precision, with the utmost scrupulousness. A perfect work never has to be done anew 
VII. Always have the desire to see the fruit of your work embodied in concrete results, whether they consist in points jotted down in writing, recorded notes, contracts which have been concluded, etc, as if you were under an obligation to show at once to other people that you have truly engaged in some work.
VIII. Carry out immediately those works you might be able to finish without delay. Deferring them or scheduling them for the future exposes you to the risk of wasting more time than you would have otherwise consumed in implementing them.
IX. Beware of interruptions. Every time you have to resume your attention and concentration will cost you time and energy (The experts put such refocusing at 7 minutes). It is better to go through “longer sessions” of work than through several short ones.
X. We need to learn not only to do things well, but also to do them rapidly (without, however, a concomitant inward haste). Many people are fastidiously precise only on condition of spending long periods of time on some work; instead, one must be able to quickly follow up an undertaking with some other one. Such ability is attained by premeditating actions and their sequence properly, as well by proceeding at a swift pace. We should in fact remember that every thought is action, it is movement, just as every movement is thought. It ensues from it that we need to act in conformity with a «vigil and rapid», vital rhythm, as opposed to one which is torpid and somnolent. This is after all the only means we have to avoid getting bored while we work.

Part Three – How to Achieve results
A straight line is the shortest distance between two points.
Presentification and Multiplication
Ideation, as it has been described in the preceding pages of this book, is already a considerably powerful tool. What we find linked to it is effective action, which is even more effective whenever it minimizes the effort made by the mental side, by one’s inner dialogue, that is, by the higher centres of the brain, which, though useful for the task of taking decisions, are, nevertheless, not as useful for us being able to carry out a logical series of operations. Every act must be executed mentally, with resolution but without any useless mental tension. We must grant the human machine a chance to work towards a goal, the chance of “watching its own self act”, as we limit our intervention to those situations where it is necessary. The human being has in fact, in his own self, a perfect system to reach whatever he wants to accomplish, provided it is founded on a uniform intent and on the presentifying of future states (i.e. causing them to be present). In most cases, there is not even any need to engage in tiresome conscious visualization. In a like manner, as we cross the road we do not conjure up a visualization of how the cars will move at different speeds. We simply “know” that at an inner level, we know it motion-wise. Pre-visualization might be of benefit at the beginning of our process to develop presentification. At a later stage, however, we will have to establish contact with the deepest nuclei of the mind.
It is important, for the sake of exploiting such force, to understand the following psychological truth: The will is a power which is linked to the “taste” of what we accomplish. Put it in different terms: A particular reason turns into an energy component, and as such into an originator of actual efforts, when an element of “taste” becomes superimposed on it, with the result that the personality of the individual concerned is grabbed and struck by it. In the same way that an animal will head towards the food with a foreknowledge of its taste, we will be more effective in moving in one direction whenever we possess a more direct sensory perception of the “taste” of what we are going to attain. The techniques we are about to present here will lead you to fully experience the taste and wonder of life.
Taste corresponds to the activity of the deepest mind 
We deliberately use the word “taste”, because, from a neurological point of view, the activity we are trying to describe here is linked to the primary activity of the cerebellum, which represents the most primitive part of the mind. It consists in nothing other than the externalization at a higher level of a primal motion.
You can understand the extent of the veracity of what we have just stated even by observing non-verbal communication. When something truly involves our persons, one can notice an increase in salivation or in any event an increment in some activity which takes place at the level of the mouth. If you are a mentor, pay heed to such phenomenon in your apprentice. You can alternatively observe it in your own selves! 
If, while you are busy imagining something, you notice an olfactory signal (which symbolizes interest) or a gustatory one, you can rest assured that you have delved into the deepest areas of the mind.

Olfactory Signals
Gustatory Signals
Enlargement of the nostrils
Touching one’s nose
Movements by the tongue 
Pressing the tongue inside the cheek 
Salivation
Small bites
Small movements by the lips (kiss)

  

Various  examples , in the field of non-verbal communication, of gustative signals  which point to the “tasting” of something

In order, therefore, to persuade, motivate, urge ourselves to act in a direction we have premeditated, we must succeed in involving our most basic mental exigencies. 
In the light of the aforesaid premises, we will now set out to explain the two essential operations, namely, presentification and multiplication.
First passage: Presentification
Presentification as we understand it — in its application to our Method — is the art of creating and living out beforehand, within the inner chords of our beings, the following day that has already been predetermined through ideation. What is mostly needed, therefore, is to colour and invigorate the said premeditated idea, to arouse in us, that is, the taste of the coming day. Even more importantly, we have to make such idea alive and kicking before our eyes, and especially to live it inside our body. In the process, we must also try and figure out the moods which we might desire to experience, the words we are going to utter to the faces we will meet on the way, to whatever we will be hearing, feeling, suffering or enjoying. At first we will have to do that analytically, and then, by the final stage, we will do so through an act that summarizes a will and a desire which, owing to the fact it is going to transcend the sphere of the conscious, will transform each one of us into a magician unto his own self. It will thus cause the coming day to be felt as something present, in the process letting us perceive, through the magical crystal of presentification, what our personality will be tomorrow. The attitude resembles the one of a person facing a crystal ball. The only distinguisher is that the image will be suggested rather than be actually seen.
By means of presentification, the future is going to be pulled into the field of the present. Presentification is thus an act of magic. In that respect it is set aside from pre-ideation, which consists, on the other hand, in an act carried out by the reason. It goes beyond mere daydreaming, dreaming that is in a wakeful state. Every one of us has had at some point the experience of dreaming that he found himself in a particular state. The sheer, stark image of our self being catapulted into the future has hardly ever induced us to deviate from our set path. If, however, a dream — by answering our subjective impulses and needs — has managed to strike the intimate chords of our being –, has actually managed, that is, to reach into the cerebellum, into the nerve centres of all our motions, then our activity will have undergone a change in direction, and we will have arranged in advance, predetermined, whatever we needed so as to accomplish it within a demarcated period of time.
Accordingly, after we have arranged and determined beforehand whatever action is becoming of us in the situation, we ought to arouse in us the desire and the reality of this activity through the medium of presentification.
Essentially speaking, the procedure of presentification consists in “living out and, if possible, representing to our own selves, the image of our future self as being something which is already in existence”, not just the way “it will turn out to be”. In other words, within ourselves we must visualize the matter as having materialized, already at this stage, just as much as the mental image of it that we are formulating exists at once now. This vivid ideational stirring into being must not be cold and forceless. Rather, we should add, to the original mental nucleus, some additional new particulars. We have to do that for the sake of forging a living image and subsequently projecting into it the strength of our desire.
During the execution of this operation, our brain must behave like a magical lamp, which is always being faced by the image of the objects of our desire. The light cast by such a lamp shall have to be represented by our ardent desire.
In order to enliven such desire as much as possible, it is necessary that the subject matter of our pre-ideation must be regarded by us as a mission for that specific day. We might thus define presentification as follows: Presentification is the commitment to carry out beforehand whatever might have been laid bare through the process of pre-ideation.
Fulfilling such commitment will occasion in us a feeling of satisfaction. Thus stirred into motion by this resolute conviction, we will be unable to anticipate the coming day as being other than a day of happiness.
If any particular thing demanding perseverance or reiterated effort, or the endurance of pain on our part, is going to infiltrate tomorrow’s activity, we should take care not to eschew the need of halting by it with our thought. We should take the opposite path of pondering and reflecting at length on such supervening matter. Through that pensive introspection, we will be forced to take into account the ineluctable nature of its occurrence, exactly as would be done by a person on the verge of removing a heavy stone which obstructs his path. That way, when fatigue eventually sets in, it will not be perceived by us as some kind of discouraging intruder, but rather as a natural thing, in the same way that a fisherman becomes inured to having damp feet and does not even bother giving any thought to such habitual reality.
An important factor behind success will be detected by us once we simultaneously pause to resolve on acting tenaciously and on incessantly persevering until we have actualized our intended goal.
Such a kind of firm resoluteness ought to be imparted, more than by a conscious effort of our will, by a sort of intense prayer which is going to pervade the core of our being, and which is going to be given renewed impetus by the excellence of our cause, as well as by sensing the fact that it forms part of a global plan.
Second passage: The mental multiplication of the idea
We refer, by the term “multiplication and absorption of the idea”, to the operation which comes after presentification. This operation is not one which is invariably required. On some occasions, indeed, it might even be omitted. It is of benefit, however, in executing the more complex variety of operations. It consists in the fact that it multiplies the energy of presentification, and lets it be absorbed by the body through the technique of the light. The multiplication of the idea by means of the light represents a quantum technique having a close connection with the techniques utilized for the sake of making ourselves magnetic, which techniques are going to be set out in the next chapter.  By resorting to such techniques, practical implementation of the idea is multiplied, and we come to appropriate it more as part of our usual assets. Verbalize your presentification. Look now at the light, and repeat such verbalization as you do so. Close your eyes. Follow the luminous trace with your sight. When time comes to reopen your eyes, you will realize how your own idea has further permeated the inner core of your being, how it has turned into something which now pervades you. 
Substitution of personality
It is also possible to combine presentification with personality substitution, and go even as far as anticipating an action as one which is carried out by some other people. Our self, in fact, what we term “our personality”, is in actual truth a blend devoid of any permanent value, and one which changes by its self every single moment. We are able a fortiori to resolve on choosing for ourselves the personality we want to have. What we call «substitution of personality» is that part of a process which consists in imagining an action as if it has been carried out, not by ourselves, but by some other person, whose spirit, abilities and praiseworthy features have penetrated our own selves, and which we then exploit so as to implement that action in the best possible way.
This procedure, — which might appear to be something magical and odd —, is however endowed with a scientific basis that might be defined as follows: When we physically represent ourselves as being a specific person we are personally familiar with, one we imagine to be in need of undertaking a particular action, our psychological state undergoes a transformation by identifying it with the state of the selected “substitute” individual. That will occur to a greater or lesser extent depending on the intensity of our mental representation. What we are dealing with, in short, is the well known physical-psychological correlation pursuant to which, by adopting a specific expressive posture of the face and the body, our spirit eventually comes to take over, step after step, the very state which corresponds to the relevant expression 65.
If the context in question is the conclusion of a business deal, what one of us would attempt to do is to shape himself up, in his inner envisioning, as if, in that moment, he actually was the friend of his regaled with the shrewdest commercial mind. In the event of a sentimental situation where he runs the risk of appearing clumsy, he would imagine himself to be his most adroit acquaintance, the most skilled one in the field of sentimental liaisons. As for the scenario where eloquence must be resorted to, he would conceive himself as being a great orator; and if he is called upon to put up a show of some energetically strong or violent person, he would envision himself to be his briskest companion.
How would any of such substitutes act?
Let us properly put up a warning that we are not dealing here with any issue of taking as one’s model either this or that acquaintance of ours. The issue is to successfully cause our own inward being to learn. It is a bit like shedding off the garment of our own personality by going to the length of replacing it with the new personality. This substitution is accomplished by entering the very being of such other person and acting without being concerned with our own selves any longer. The profitable use of this medium presupposes a constant study of other people's characters, an unceasingly alert psychological excavation carried out with the aim of suddenly snatching the secret mechanism which urges this or that individual into action, when any such person arouses our sense of admiration and our envy, and of penetrating the depths of his characteristic modus operandi.
Apart from accomplishing it at a mental level, this personality substitution might even be engaged in for the benefit of our body, by imaging the look, the tone of voice, the bearing of whoever we select to be our model.
It should be clearly understood that all this will not succeed in turning a monster into a handsome person, nor a fool into a witty individual. It will, however, be of benefit in changing our personality for the better and, above anything else, in rescuing us from timidity, which is the first causative agent of any failure.
The training on how to master this practice must be insisted with for a long period if one wishes it to yield good results. We should begin by creating for ourselves an ideal human type comprising an array of features borrowed from a number of our acquaintances. Such an ideal type will have to encompass our physical, intellectual and moral ideals. We will then elaborate this composite ideal in such a manner that we might come to have of it a detailed  vision which is such as to leave us in no doubt as to the attitude that this ideal character is going to adopt across the various sets of  circumstances.
The mirror
The contemplation of this ideal might be greatly facilitated by the under-mentioned procedure: Place yourselves in front of a large mirror, yet imagining to see lying beyond the mirror, not your actual imagine, but rather the ideal image onto which you shall project your entire influence.

Even in the absence of a mirror, we can imagine this character being reflected against the wall fronting us. Such a “mental picture” will remain stably ahead of us, until the time when availing ourselves of it eventually sets in.
A procedure which complements the preceding one is what is set out here under: “Let is always imagine to be facing the person who is best qualified to lend us advice”. Through such means, we might be able, in every moment of our life, including those moments when we happen to be alive, to automatically rectify ourselves until we reach a stage when, by the sheer strength of an unconscious habit, we turn into models of physical and mental correctness, thereby taking proper care of our outer garment, our attitude, our speech, and our comportment. An important role in this connection is going to be played by the concept of self-respect, which in the ultimate analysis consists in the habit of acting before our consciousness in the way one would be acting vis-à-vis a person of high esteem. What we do should be undertaken out of respect for other people, sure, but even to a greater extent, a fortiori, out of self-respect.
We shall finally seal the teaching of this immediate transmission of a specific psychological state by suggesting that, whenever we might find ourselves intimidated, in the street or in somebody's living room, we should visualize beside us some authoritative friend who, with his charisma, might be able to shield our smallness.
The procedure as thought here might be successfully applied to any kind of critical situation we might find ourselves thrown into.
In such a case, instead of surrendering ourselves to some recklessly hasty restlessness, we should pause to ponder our current situation, as if it did not involve us at all, but only a stranger who is miles away from us, whereupon we will reflect over which kind of advice, should we be dispassionately solicited to offer any, we would tender to his person in order for him to wriggle his way out of such embarrassment.
Acting
Initiative consists in the ability to let the product of our ideation shift to the field of the real, the realm of practical actualization. To an extent, initiative further consists in the art of exiting the usual beaten tracks and thereby discovering new associations, new possibilities. Planning swiftly and sagaciously and acting resolutely: That is initiative.
His inveterate enemy is represented by indecisiveness, by the Hamlet-like wavering between yes and no. As it is known, in some cases indecisiveness turns into such a serious and chronic state of being as to represent a fully-fledged psychological illness, being the malady of «doubt». At the time he has to go out, the sick person suffering from such an ailment does not know whether he should really go out or whether it is not actually better for him to stay behind, with the result that doubt enchains him to his seat. Other people, doubting as they do whether they have left their house door open, retrace their steps once, twice, ten times to their residence in order to ascertain whether that is true or not. 
Eliminating knowledge (the discursive)
In order to achieve development (Tao Te King)
While these represent pathological cases, each one of us, however, is at least acquainted with the painful powerlessness to act which doubt instils in our beings.
The first step that needs to be taken so as to avoid indecisiveness is to banish from us the fear of committing mistakes. This is precisely what the usefulness of formulating one’s plan consists in. A plan, in fact, enables one to think. A plan which is well done postulates a demarcated time frame. This means that, even though a feared unforeseen event might materialize, we would be able to take remedial action against it. The people who are ordinarily prey to doubt do not — in general — think in accordance with any plan. They rather dream about the worst consequences imaginable. As a result of that, they are never present to their own selves, and never cohere firmly to the relevant fact. They lack, in short, that precious ability which is named by us «presentification» 66.
Every person might acquire the habit of taking a prompt, brisk and voluntary decision just as any one else. You should persist, at the cost of making errors, in willing yourselves capable of resolving upon something promptly, and you should especially remind yourselves of the fact that no more exception should be allowed henceforth. A useful exercise in this regard consists in assigning a certain percentage to error, and then acknowledging it as one conceivable possibility.
At this point, you must accustom yourselves to realize your objectives. If you are busy doing something, try and divide it into shorter phases which you then punctiliously complete in full.
It is from the energy of the action that progress depends.
In order to be energetic when dealing with our own selves, we have to put an end to too comfortable a habit, namely, the one of feeling pity over ourselves. We are afraid to cause ourselves (our body, and our soul) too much suffering. We ought by contrast to train ourselves, even as regards the most common acts of our quotidian existence, on how to let thought be followed by action, and on how to be more in the "doing” than in the “I am doing”. What is needed from a practical viewpoint is to stop identifying yourselves with your tiny little egotistic self, in order to identify yourselves with a more comprehensively global dimension. 
Lastly, it is incumbent on you to inject vital energy and presence into whatever you do. Dress up, shave your beard, eat, and walk with greater energy and consciousness of your sensations. This does not mean you should act as madmen. Quite the reverse, as you will be required to act in a truly normal and rational way, one which is totally detached from your puny egotistic “self”. In one word, doing it the way it should be done.
Exercise 51 – Abolishing the first person singular When you identify your own actions, you should abolish the first person singular “I”. One method for achieving that is to emulate Julius Caesar, who made use of the third person singular when referring to his own self. In this manner, you might be able to “see yourselves acting”, instead of merely “acting”. An alternative way, which might actually complement the preceding one, is to resort to using the infinitive verb “to act”, “to do”, rather than the formulas “I am acting”, “I do”. You are going to find that this simple linguistic method changes your perception of reality.  
Instantaneous mono-ideation
It appears to be clear, based on what has been stated up to now, that in our view the best guarantee of success is provided, in the first place, by the clarity and comprehensiveness of our predeterminations, and, secondly, by the emotional power by which we might be able to re-vivify them, thereby making their practical implementation — so to speak — an inevitably pre-destined occurrence. If, owing to general presentification, our plan has in a sense become alive inside us, and one overwhelmingly determined to be actualized outwardly, the substitution of personality puts the conscious side to rest, thereby entrusting to the unconscious the task of acting on our behalf. Essentially, — as one can see —, in addition to the general presentification, we ought to work on a series of lightning-fast pre-visualizations, which are parallel and antecedent to the actions we are required to carry out. This presentification witnesses the simultaneous entry in it of the image of the action which the self is called upon to undertake, and, lastly, the image of our self as modified by the action once it has been implemented. This complex act of presentification which antedates the action is what we call Instantaneous Mono-ideation. It ensues from it that the day of an active person might be reduced to a series of extremely quick mono-ideations, which are linked to one another by the plan for the day.
In the field of military life, or even in some bourgeois environments, for example, fear and the authoritative power possessed by the bosses, foist an instantaneous  mono-ideation on the relevant individual, who accordingly turns into an automat for the entire period during which the enjoined action is going to last. Mono-ideation might even be called «polarization».
Through the medium of mono-ideation, our self is obliged — so to speak — to plunge into the momentary action which needs to be carried out, to be in that action, in so doing sealing off any other accessible path for physical and psychological stimulations. The entire power of the mind, and the entire secret behind successful accomplishment, are conditional on our ability to concentrate on, and to halt at, any issue or idea, for as long we might desire it 67.
How to lend the mind the right posture which readies it for the action
Though plentiful books have been written for the purpose of teaching the art of concentrating, we believe that they can all be summarized in the following very few normative precepts, wherein the quintessential marrow of our system is contained:
1. – Accurately studying what we must or want to do. This is the task allocated to the consciously aware brain seeking out the best means as well as the opportunities to do a specific thing in a specific way.
2. – Arousing around the action the totality of the interest and the flavour which it encompasses. The interest — as demonstrated by all the experiments of physiological psychology — is the supreme stimulator lending tonic force to work and fatigue 68.
Mono-ideation, too, must turn into a habit in order for it to be profitable. Through the lengthy persistence in implementing this practice, every single part of the plan ends up being implemented under the irresistible impulse of the hypnotized person who will be obliged to carry out till the end, at any cost, what he has been instructed to do.
The first step in the ladder leading one to achieve a good mono-ideation consists in avoiding any external stimulation from the senses or internal stimulation based on associations of ideas. We will have to constantly pull our mind back to the middle of the road, just as one would do with a bizarre mule, thereby preventing it from swerving either to the right or to the left. Whichever ideas might arise that lack harmony with the one on which our mind is focused, ought to be inexorably chased away. 
Mono-ideation might thus be compared to the operation of focusing a lens, in such a manner that the object of our contemplation must appear to us to be vivid and magnified, whereas, at the same time, everything else fades into the unconscious side of our brain.
In terms of the practice which is needed for most people, that is, all those persons who are daily forced to carry out immutably fixed operations, which are repeated at specific times of the day (as with students, employees, manual workers, and, generally speaking, all kinds of subordinates), it will suffice to divide the day into as many segments as is the number of the occupations which find space in the course thereof, and then, through the medium of a mono-ideation that is specific to each and every one of them,  to consecrate the whole of oneself to the work reserved for any such relevant segment, without showing any concern whatsoever for all the rest 69.
Knowing how to watch oneself acting
It is necessary, if one wishes to fully harmonize the single actions in a single interrelated whole, to ensure that all the distinct actions should let themselves be subsumed under an action which is always “straight”, in the sense of being directed towards a purpose. In essence, that requires man to be his own master, to be capable, that is, of selecting one specific direction and then “watching his own self acting in a natural way”. The outward attitude of the true achiever in life, the one who extracts from it a full cup of gratifying self-fulfilment, is not, contrary to the way many people imagine, the attitude of a madly possessed fellow who in his frenzy throws half of the world upside down. It is rather the attitude of a calm man who is open to the world, forever the same, without either arrogance or humility, and who simply does. His sight is straight and confident, he speaks slowly, and as he does so, his full-toned voice says, if need be, “I do not know” and “I apologize”. He has a very correct yet unhurried appearance. His talk is exact, one of cutting precision, and at the same time shorn of futile stylistic embellishments. He knows how to listen to other people, and takes his time in order to understand what they are saying. He refrains from criticising any person, choosing to rather focus on doing. Whenever he is solicited to do so, he expresses his own opinion in a frank and straightforward manner, while taking good care to avoid imposing it whenever there is no need to do so. He is in the action. He works and is able to maintain himself at the material level he prefers. When he is at work, he truly works; when he is eats, he really busy himself with eating; when he amuses himself, he does so wholeheartedly; and when he sleeps, he is really asleep. He acts naturally. He does nothing in vain, and always confers a precise, clear and immediate purpose on his own activity.
In order to “act naturally”, it would be beneficial to break down our activity into a number of parts. Essentially, that would entail perceiving it as being made up of a series of initial urges converging into one direction, each one of which is then succeeded by a period of activity when the conscious part adopts for itself the role of monitoring observer of the good functioning of the human machine that “operates in a natural fashion”. We thus essentially look at ourselves acting. This represents the adoption of a posture of presence, one of mental rest and a high level of creativity, given that the mind is perennially awake and present, and, at the same time, it is not occupied and blocked by chattering and thoughts, which would at such stage only have the effect of diminishing our mental clarity. One can detect here a resemblance with what some people have called “state of flux”, as well as with more elevated levels of the being.
The real man
Directs without touching
Carries out without doing
(Tao Te King)
One must “act effortlessly”. In this instance, the concept of effort is directed towards the self, which must be transcended and which is in actual fact the one that “strains itself” whenever it acts.
This does not mean that, in order for one to attain such a state of “acting naturally”, it might not at times be necessary to carry out a “super effort” capable of sweeping away the “self” and its limitations. The exercises set out in the first part of this book aim precisely at accomplishing that goal. 
The quality of “acting naturally” is founded on the concept of “being present to one's own self”. 
One has to act with his essential inward being rather than with his egotistic self. Being present denotes being one's own master, having the capacity to distinguish between those actions demanding a logical and rational effort from the type of action which, by contrast, is a response to the automatic character of life. In the latter case, one must be cognizant of how to utilize his own unconscious, his natural automatic side, as well as the “spontaneous acting” by the body, in its capacity as a spontaneous partner in the activity, from the premise of utilizing the available time down to the implementation of every single action, with the result that the part thereof which is resolved upon by the higher centres of the brain is circumscribed to the mere initial push. It is indeed enough, for the man who pursues such a discipline, to say “I do”, for everything to then unfold itself "naturally”.
Succeeding in not doing something because of an extreme resolution from the mind, and yet managing to do it, is thus the ultimate goal which is attainable through the mental discipline our method proposes. The effort, the ambition of any disciple, ought to be directed at reducing the need to make use of the brain’s higher centres across the largest possible number of daily actions, and discovering an alternative path for hearing the voice of one’s unconscious and one’s naturalness, and above all, the voice of one's own “essential being”. 
There is a ladder which can take a person to the acquisition of such capacity.  
In the earlier stages, it will be easy to firstly organize, in terms of this modus operandi, those actions lacking an intrinsic value, and which serve as means rather than being an end in their own selves. Such actions encompass all the acts of one’s vegetative life, all the individual acts which are necessary requirements for sustaining one's existence, as well as the acts aimed at securing social conservation (the whole array of pleasantries and polite etiquettes, customs and traditions, prevailing fashion, etc). Instead of struggling each time to resolve on what to do, it will be enough to just let our bodily machine carry them out, and then, once they have been arranged beforehand, to entrust control over such acts to the unconscious mind, whereupon we might comfortably limit ourselves to the role of observers of all of that. 
For example, at the time of eating, all that is required would be to send a simple question to one’s body, by which we ask it to choose what is actually beneficial, without indulging in any additional thoughts, but rather taking care to keep on being present to our own selves. The natural prerequisite of such modus operandi, of course, is to have a clear connection with ourselves, and the acquisition, either spontaneously through one’s inbred nature or as a result of learning, of positive life habits, which are hygienic and beneficial, together with having conscious awareness of such nice habits. We are, in other words, enjoined to gain prior access to that particular inward “sense” whereby our own body flexibly replies to us and tells us what benefits it. In the beginning, we might make the path for such bodily response smooth by resorting to the creation of a positive image showing us how well we are going to feel if we followed the rules. The image thus conjured up and visualized is, however, especially necessary at the initial stage only. Thereafter, everything is going to unfold itself in a simple way.
The same thing is going to apply to one’s relationships with other people. Human contact is a natural activity, and the greater our ability to lean on our unconscious, the better will be the results we are ultimately going to harvest. You should for instance know how to draw back during exchanges of opinion and thus create silence within yourselves. These moments will be used so as to stay in touch with a state of inner harmony as well as harmony with one's interlocutors over and above the said mutually divergent opinions. We will then display what is termed “spontaneity”. Besides, that will consist in a natural and educated form of spontaneity, insofar as it will be also linked to an enduring desire to have a relationship with the other. In that manner, we will know how to express ourselves, without asking ourselves such useless questions as to whether we are being the dominant force or the one that is being dominated. We will be rather focusing on the purpose of the encounter with such other person. 
In order for this activity to take place in a perfect form, it is however a necessary precondition that our mind should know where to head for when we find ourselves in life’s varied circumstances.
The other prerequisite consists, therefore, in predetermination, since it is this which establishes the logical concatenation, the sequence of operations leading to the attainment of a given result. The predetermined action must be carried out perfectly and fully in the knowledge that our body functions, as if in a somnambulistic state, via automatic acts, and by resorting as less as possible to the use of the brain’s higher centres, the operation of which will subsist purely at the level of external control. That is something achievable, though with difficulty, even in respect of intellectual works. After all, the inspiration felt by poets and artists is a form of automatism or, to put it in even better terms, a form of cerebral unconscious, whereby a split occurs: The subject falls so to speak into a state of trance, while the spirit acts independently of any volitional force.
Extending the help which the unconscious provides 
It is not only the acts of conservation, however, which ought to find their place within such modus operandi. Many more actions than what we might presume can be relinquished to the help of the unconscious: Break up the action, the work, into so many logically concatenated small actions, that is, into a series of small actions which are arranged in such a way that any one of them is going to inevitably summon the next one into being. Those difficulties which had previously appeared to be huge will then disappear as if through magic. 
One practicable method consists in reducing to a bare minimum the voluntary and conscious effort which is required to kick-start any thing. That is achieved by breaking up the act to be carried out into a sequence of minor acts. The beginning of a race consists in one initial step, the first part of swallowing up a bitter medicine is accosting the glass to one's lips, and the ignition key of a declaration of love is opening one's mouth! If, as you perform such innocent operations, you avoid thinking of the next ones, you will then be able to execute the former lot with the utmost cool, and you will find yourselves obliged to embark on the subsequent steps when it will be too late for you to withdraw therefrom 70. 
Let us state again here that, in order to achieve results through that method, the following prerequisites will need to be met:
The existence of a natural direction: The premeditation on the usefulness or otherwise of an action, on the means to bring it off, and on its intended aim. 
Jointly with the preceding element, it is indispensable to establish the way in which time at one’s disposal ought to be utilized, and to thus live by keeping a constant eye on the watch. 
A state of muscular relaxation is presupposed to be there. 
Letting go of emotionalism, i.e. having a concentration and economy of attitudes and gestures in conformity with how such qualities have been taught earlier in the pages of this book. 
This aspect of letting go of emotionalism is fundamental, due to the reversibility of the well-known law which states that it is the idea that brings about the act. The reciprocal corollary of such law is that the act brings about the idea, and you will thus be forever barred from getting into this way of acting “effortlessly” so long as you make yourselves unceasingly restless.
“Identifying oneself with the action clouds the mind”
(Tao Te king)
If you are present, you might then allow the body to “act naturally” and follow its own path. Such “natural acting” is developed on the strength of the association of ideas, and it resembles creative activity. A major event, once it is subjected to an analysis, is shown to be nothing other than a sequence of small events. A small event is in turn made up of most tiny actions which are related to one another. The factor determining the smallness or greatness of a specific act is not the amount of fatigue which is required to perform it, but rather its ultimate meaning, that is, the influence it is going to exercise on our life and the life of our fellow humans. The same action is involved by lighting up a cigarette or setting fire to an ammunition warehouse, yet it does not produce a uniform effect in the two separate scenarios.
Due to the foregoing, “acting naturally and effortlessly” might be understood as relating both to the small and the big things alike. The most difficult aspect of drafting an article for a newspaper consists in sitting in front of a blank piece of paper and dipping the pen into the ink for the first time, before the initial words are jotted down. The most difficult issue to be solved when one wants to remove a tooth is to ring the door bell of a dentist’s surgery. The program of a lifetime might be automatically carried out in such a fashion. The whole secret behind success is not ensconced in the action as such. It rather depends on the potency and congruence characterizing the way in which we have premeditated the actions to be undertaken and the sequence in which they should be performed, so as to eventually arrive at the goal we are aiming for.
Being able to watch our own human machine function, and seeing ourselves act without any effort, is the outward expression of being habitually present to our own selves. What you organize through the higher centres of the mind represents activity in general. Being however a witness of one's own acting leads one to transcend timidity and worry; nay, as far as the latter is concerned, this modus operandi is in actual fact the antithesis of preoccupation, and as such it enables one to function in a state of imperturbable calmness.
This “natural” way of acting might of course be negative just as much as it might be positive. It might, in other terms, either be an aid to the active performance of useful actions or act as an inhibitor which prevents from undertaking harmful operations.  In this respect, it might be no different from the art of education. The differentiating element between the two, however, lies in the fact that education is normative, and thus lies down precepts, whereas "acting naturally” is an unconscious occurrence. Whereas education proceeds from the outside inwardly, acting naturally moves in the opposite direction. It starts, that is, from the unconscious depths of our self in order to ultimately reach a goal which, while it is ours, consists in actual fact in an outer manifestation.
Nevertheless — as we should reiterate once more — “acting naturally” is a means to an end rather than an end in itself. It serves the purpose of diminishing the straining effort necessitated by a voluntary action, though it still depends at all times on a higher level of presencing. The master of his own destiny will always be the conscious individual. It is this self-presencing which, now and then, will advice us to break the voluntary action through an automatism which can be no less detrimental than it is convenient. Many people in fact relinquish the conscious state and self-presencing, and accordingly fall into sheer machine-like behaviour, leading them to discover in automatism the secret of an easy and useless life. The intelligent man, by contrast, must always allow his reason’s critique to occupy the pre-eminent place which it is rightfully entitled to. That critique will occasionally counsel him to engage in a salutary rebellion against automatism elevated into the guiding norm of both our personal and social conduct. By means of such healthy rebellion to it, the critical reason will push our conduct towards new and demanding roads which ultimately lead us to our own progress.
Whoever, after all, desires to become an adept of the method laid out in this book will never run the risk of falling into an exclusive and noxious automatism. The method does indeed include one part which is daily consecrated to the gymnastics of the will, to exercising critical judgment. In actual fact, from it — once the signification of critical judgment is properly grasped — there will spring forth such an intense yearning for self-perfecting that it will prove satisfactory to every most daring conqueror, nay, it will help him attain the loftiest goal he has set for himself.
Recapitulation: Aids to action
Main means:
Presentification
1. Once the agenda for the next day has been drafted, let us accurately examine the various points making it up, viewing them in action;
2. By a summarizing act, we should then arouse in us the emotion that is felt concerning the coming day, as if we were living it at this very moment (i.e.: perceiving ourselves in the next day).
Multiplication
Let us verbalize our resolution, and then resort to the light so as to obtain a “quantum multiplication”.
2. Substitution of personality.
1. During every single action, let us replace our personality with the one of that acquaintance of ours who would be best suited to carry it out.
2. Let us imagine ourselves to be in front of the person to whose liking we would like ourselves to be - Self-Respect;
3. When you are in the street or with a group of people, you should imagine yourselves being accompanied by a persona exuding authoritative charisma.
3. Instantaneous mono-ideation
Instantaneous presentification, which predates the verbal action of our self; as well as sealing off any path to those external stimulations having the tendency to distract us from such presentification.
4. Presence to the action
1. It results from being present to the human machine, which is capable of creating a rigorous concatenation of the different operations to be carried out, in such a manner that the conclusion of one such operation will coincide with the beginning of another one;
2. The push which instantaneous mono-ideation gives us should suffice for the purpose of making us undertake the relevant action while we “watch ourselves doing”, and in conformity with a “natural way of acting” characterized by a level of perfection which is progressively greater commensurately with the exponential level of strength possessed by the mono-ideation and the personality substitution (Or else we would at least have transcended the limits of the egotistic self).
Part Four – Being a Magnet attracting situations and opportunities
The one who has attentively followed the path which has been described so far shall attain what he really wants in life. There is, nevertheless, yet another, higher level. The forthcoming exercises are going to allow you to be a true “magnet” for circumstances, to function with the full force of your subconscious, leaving it to the Universe to bring to you whatever echoes your distinct personalities.
We are going to examine here under a number of powerful practical methods:
The method of the light: It is especially useful for the purpose of opening up one’s creative mind 
Self-magnetism, with a view to changing habits and practical results
Indian self-hypnosis, in order to bring what you want into your life 
A general method of mental attitude, the aim of which is to attract the objects of your desire.
The flux of time is clearly an unsuitable concept to describe that physical world without past, present and future. It simply is
(Thomas Gold)71
Thinking of time in terms of past, present and future is useless. What actually exists, however, is an eternal present 
(Saying of the Tao)

The exercises which are about to follow do not require you to specify the applicable time factor. You will be in fact working while you are turned towards the Universe, plunged within a dimension where time simply does not exist. All that can be found there are some technical needs to reorganize reality. 
Notwithstanding what we have just stressed, one part of the mind is steeped in time. It is only by acquiring consciousness of something that we might be able to lift ourselves above that thing and thereby master it. It follows that you will maximize your gains only if you have firmly grasped and applied what has been written in the preceding pages of this book. In fact, the techniques we are about to observe now are like multipliers, able as such to multiply the results you are going to achieve manifold times. Let us however remember, at the same time, that any number multiplied by zero will always yield zero as the final result! Put it differently, if your car is left without fuel or you are not conversant with how to drive, knowing the shortcut will be of no avail to you. Begin, therefore, by developing, to their maximum possible extent, the qualities and aptitudes which have been pointed out in the previous chapters, as they are endowed with a fundamental significance.
The power of pre-visualization
The voluntary erection of each person’s destiny, the perfecting of our qualities, and the attainment of our objectives, might be jointly compared to the construction of a building. A building presupposes the prior drafting of plans on the part of an architect who has pondered at length its size, its degree of importance, and the purposes which the building to be erected will have to serve. In spite of that fact, the actual construction of this building is going to materialize but by bit without the architect needing to direct his attention to the whole, inasmuch as it is enough for him to focus on the immediately next phase of the work at any given time. In that manner, we do not have to live under a perpetual spiritual tension about the building having to necessarily resemble a fixed idea. It would suffice us if we were to generally target the purpose behind our activity. This is indeed what we have done so far, and what we are now going to do through the means of self- fascination and self-magnetism, which are forms that might be likened to hypnosis in one sense, and yet are additionally accompanied by a thought shot through with energy.
In the course of the preceding chapter, we have spoken about presentification. Visualization might avail us in this context. Constructing images is the key to the meeting between will and imagination. This key enables the conferment of a specific direction on the present within the physical realm, and allows us to create the situations we desire. This type of imagination is one of the forms taken by a higher art which steers the mind and the universe towards a particular direction. It is an imagination that must always start from your own selves. You must therefore study yourselves, your needs, your defects, and on that basis determine the true objectives of your life and your character. No one can know which one is the route to follow, unless he is first familiar with the point he is going to set out from.
Painting up the canvas
For us to be able to create, we have to start from an idea. We have, in other words, to define what we intend achieving 72.
Here under, we are going to conduct a fully-fledged examination of this issue. The issue is also definable by the concept of “moulding the pristine idea”, as well as by the metaphor of painting up the bare canvas to which colour is later going to be added.
We can gift ourselves a quality we are lacking, or remove from us a defect which harms us. We can likewise reach some particular objective. Indeed, one might even legitimately state that, normally, the different instances only form but a single homogeneous case. It is always, in fact, a question of pursuing an ideal of improvement which is harmonious with the Universe.
Colouring the subject-matter
In order for our mind to be able to get activated, we must now confer sensory and emotional colour on what we desire, in so doing kindling the activity of our whole brain.
We must only submit before our mind, our soul, the desired quality, not, however, in a static form, but rather in a dynamic one; in other words, not as a cold objective portrayal, but as some thing which has become one with us. You should then enliven the image by anticipating every lovely, nice and pleasant aspect which having such quality entails. 
Having in front of our selves ONLY the desired state.
Let us utilize all our senses without exception, especially sight, hearing, touch and emotion. Let us in other words be SENSORY.
Here is another point. By making use of a psychological gymnastics which our adept is not going to find difficult, we will have to gradually cause this vision to shift from the future state to the present one, that is, to imagine ourselves – after we have extirpated the memory of the defective state – as being already equipped now, in the PRESENT, with that quality by which we would like to adorn ourselves. We must therefore view ourselves as being, at the current time, privileged owners of such embellishing decoration.
Presentifying
In that way, we will then have the picture finally coloured and completed. We can notice the fact that, more than phrase 73, the disciple who has reached this stage in his apprenticeship will only be facing the tangible vision, a hallucination of his own self, we would be almost tempted to say, which is free from the harmful vice, a vision of his delivered self passing unperturbed by the tobacco shops, declining to accept the friend’s offer of a cigarette, brimful of the joy of being able at last to feel the freshness of his natural breath, to notice colour having returned to his face, to hear his heart beating in his chest at a normal speed, etc. This is what we term the dynamic vision, which is clearly different, as we can see, from the static type.
The same consideration holds true of our desire to achieve a result in our life. We have to evoke a complete image for ourselves.
This art of conjuring up scenes through our imagination, or ideoplastic 74, which is fuelled by the intention of seeing them materialize in the realm of actual reality, had already been regarded by Paracelsus as a form of magic properly so-called. Most of us – it ought to be repeated – either desire too little or desire something so feebly that no conscious effort arises out of such enervated desire. When that is the case, as magnets we are too weak for us to attract to our persons what we want for ourselves. We must therefore learn how to turn ourselves into strong attracting magnets. As a step in that direction, we should think of time as being other than a convention. What exists is simply the universe around us, and we can draw a reply from it. Such vision has no room for an existent called time. Only the present moment exists 75. The methods which are set out here below always presuppose the fact that you have already succeeded in identifying a centre within your own selves, and that you deem what you are aiming at to be truly beneficial, as these are essential elements for achieving any thing in the universe.
Method 1 – Light
It is the simplest method of them all.
1. Verbalize your goal. 
2. Thereafter, fix your look on a light  76 and repeat such verbalization. 
3. Close your eyes and try and see whether in the luminous trace you can see your goal appearing. Imagine, in other words, that such goal will stand out at the back or by the side.
4. Lastly, open your eyes again. If need be, you might repeat the exercise.
The effect of this exercise is to stimulate the mind’s creative power. In addition, it has the capacity of further entrenching the idea about the intended goal in your being.

Method 2 – Self-magnetism
This second method we are going to describe here is particularly suitable to the quest for a character transformation of our selves. It might however be also resorted to in order to accomplish physical results.
Preparatory phase
Decision and Consciousness of what one wants for himself
Place yourselves in the present. You might possibly practice some exercise like the ones we have described in the first part of our treatment of the subject of becoming re-integrated with the now. As soon as we are going to be upon a firm point, we can then be able to create.
Global declaration
You must tell yourselves that the exercise is going to work. Such an asseveration is going to set the tone of your mind. You must say to your own selves that you want, and are both able and determined to apply the methodology for the sake of your self-improvement 77. 
Basic exercise

This exercise can be carried out in one of two possible ways: Either in front of a mirror, or through a light relaxation and on the strength of a calm breathing, the eyes closed, while you visualize the present which you desire to see actualized. 
The first way is, however, the most effective, simple and fast 78. 
Looking at yourselves in the mirror is as if you were conversing with a friend, and you succeed in persuading him. Take it easy, exit the time of urgency, and be in the time of the present, in some “beginning”.
Alternate the use of the pronoun “I” and the pronoun “you”. As you keep on watching yourselves, you are going to say to yourselves now and end “you can do”, while on other occasions you are going to utter to yourselves, “yes, I can do”. Be colourful in your expressions, and describe the state which can be reached in a clear manner. If you want to accentuate the effect, then whenever you are going to make use of the pronoun “you”, you should stare at your left eye, whereas you are going to fix the right one any time you will utilize the first person pronoun “I”. You ought to apply the sequences I can – I want – I decide both to what you would like to achieve and to the methodology you are going to adopt for the sake of achieving it. These three phrase-sequences, indeed, gather the three moments of your being, and enable the construction of the present. 
For example: You are a person in harmony with the natural elements, you feel nice, and today is a wonderful day! Yes, today is truly a marvellous day and I feel full of energies! Etc.
This exercise already represents a way in which an image might enter our mind. It can also be carried out daily by one of you when he is alone, so as to lend a greater urge and stimulating incentive to his own life 79.
The materialization of desire
Defining the Formula
Already by thinking, according to the aforesaid method, of your desired idea (either facing a mirror or while in a state of light relaxation), by that alone, we are legitimately allowed to think that you have reached a first degree of partial assimilation 80.
We want, however, to go even further. We are both Able and Willing to get into the phase of absorption of our idea properly so-called through the support provided by the body itself. In so doing, we might be able, over a few sessions only, to additionally rid ourselves of habits which have endured unaltered for many years, and patterns of behaviour which no other technique had empowered us to uproot in the past. We will likewise develop through it new virtues and abilities. Lastly, we might also facilitate the actualization of new realities by defining the true self of ours which is plunged in that reality.
You might even add a verbal formula, a mantra, a symbol which is such as to be easily assimilated by your psychological faculties.
The two general rules that ought to govern the articulation of our formula are as follows:
1 The formula must be an affirmative one in the present tense. – We must not say, for example: «I will never be sad again», but rather something in the vein of «I am in a good mood». 
2 The formula must be exceedingly short. We must in fact focus our thought on an asseveration, as a testimony of faith. The entire testimony of faith of Christian people is condensed in a single word: I BELIEVE.
General Preparation and Method
How to ready the environment
a) Put yourselves in an environment which is equipped with a mirror. 
b) Once you have settled on your favourite formula 81, write it down on a piece of paper, in very large characters. Place the piece of paper vertically. The sheet of paper must remain in an upright position through the help of a book or some other form of support. The paper must be at the same level as your eyes, at a distance, moreover, which enables you to read it comfortably while your head leans against the back of your chair, better still your couch.
c) Place before a piece of paper a glass full of water or your favourite drink, and top it up with some light.
d) Introduce in the room a source if light, in such a manner that it will fall most intensely on the piece of paper and on the surface of the liquid substance, thereby producing a reflection in the water. Ensure that such light be as bright and resplendent as possible. The rest of the room must stay immersed in the shade. If you can, you should also keep your own selves at a distance from the cone of light. It would be even better if you could allow the light to come from below when gauged vis-à-vis your persons.
How to absorb the formula:
Relaxation
Relax. Develop first a central state within yourselves. Your mind must be in a state of tranquillity, exactly like the surface of a becalmed lake 82. 
Such a state is symbolized by the hegemony of the natural elements. 

Speak to yourselves in front of a mirror
Acquiring the mantra and the written symbol
If you have set your resolve on making use of a formula as well, you should look intensely at the formula and at the symbol in such a manner that every word becomes deeply etched in your mind. Thereafter, immediately after you have finished reading the formula or the phrase, you should direct your eyes to the liquid surface. Once you have taken that step, you should stare at the reflection cast by the light on the water with your utmost intensity, and you should take care in the process to project into the liquid the vibrations of your thought.  At the same time, you must ensure that, through the medium of your fantasy, you see appearing in the luminous portion of the liquid the image of your own person as being equipped with the quality and the appearance you would like your person to possess 83. In the event that the desired quality happens to be of a moral nature, you will depict your own selves as being endowed with the outer appearance which corresponds to such quality, on account of the well-known equivalence which exists between the inner qualities of the spirit and one’s  exterior physical guise. If you find it difficult to imagine your own body “in a vacuum”, take care to place, at a close distance, some portrait of yours, and then  project it, in a modified form, inside the liquid, using the force of your suggestion for that purpose.
You must in fact remember that every instinctive impulse, every motion by your passions, every state pertaining to the sphere of affections, which is ordinarily intense, runs counter to this condition of “envisioning”.
You are obligatorily called upon to truly see your own selves, exactly as if you were the Homunculus of the magician Doctor Faust, shaking, bending, smiling, lifting yourselves up, in short, adopting the selfsame attitudes you would like your beings to be characterized by tomorrow.
Assimilation in the body
The next phase to unfold itself is the phase of absorption.  Think of the water you are drinking as having been enlivened via a descent and a gradual materialization of the spirit in the world, which is caused by the spirit assuming the shape of that perfection you have imagined to perceive on the surface of the water.
Hold the cup which contains the liquid and drink it slowly, non-stop, accompanying such action by the idea that the vibrations cast into it by your thought shall all bounce back to you, for them to subsequently circulate within your being.
In order to asseverate the successful execution of the operation, you ought to feel yourselves, at the end of it,   being in a state of happy calm, as if the discharge of the vow expressed by yourselves through the formula had already taken place at that precise moment.
Our advice to the disciple is to study this paragraph well, and to assess every part thereof as it should. Success depends on its precise implementation, not only the material side of it, but also the spiritual component of its application. The level you have attained by this stage, provided you have worked well, is already the level attained through an average self-hypnosis.
Subsequent phase
If it is time to go and sleep, you might shift your attention to the assimilation of the formula while inside your own bedroom, in such a manner that you will be required to move as little as possible.
It is nevertheless recommended to be in a state of mental inertia, one comparable in nature to muscular relaxation. We have finally arrived at the culminating point of our method.  The phase we shall go through now is a phase where our idea gains access to a new dimension. This is a dimension in which the idea merges with the body and forms with it a unified amalgam: Our idea “materializes itself”. The body divests itself of time, whereupon it comes to represent the ideal support to the task of entrenching the new idea.
Darkness and Magnetization
As soon as you are in bed or you are seated on a couch, watch a light and mentally repeat your formula once more. 
 Antero/Posterior Activation 84. Now, gently rub the palm of one hand against the other one, until such point when both of them are warmed up. Thereupon, lay the palm of your right hand behind the head, on the cerebellum. In that manner, you are going to bring the frontal part of yourselves (the future) in contact with the part which lies at the back (the past), at which stage, for a few instants, you will find yourselves in a median space between the two, namely, the space in which you are busy creating. While in such position, breathe rhythmically until the luminous trace disappears (for a time, therefore, spanning 1 to 3 minutes), in so doing focusing your concentration on the particular idea you would like to give a materialized form to. This concentration, if properly understood, must be as if it were a vision of our own selves endowed with the desired attitude or in possession of the particular physical or spiritual qualities we want to personally possess 85.
Spread of Energy Remove at this point your hands from the head, and repeat the action of rubbing the palms of your hands. With the right palm, starting from the shoulder, switch to the left side of the body, from a minimum of four times up to 25 times if you so wish. Through that path, you will be able, by this side of your body, to polarize the suggestive fluid which irradiates from your brain in the course of this operation. There is no need to pass the hand on the limbs in any hard manner. It will be sufficient, for that purpose, to simply graze them, or even to keep your hand at a distance of one or two millimetres from any such limb, occasionally touching it. The important aspect consists in the fact that the mind should not lose its focus during the material action. Rub the palms of your hands once more, and then, with the palm of your left hand, switch to the right side of your body.
The Heart Rub the palms of your hands again, and then, keeping your hands crossed on each other, let them pass over your chest for about 1-2 minutes. This will have the effect of homogenizing the sensations even by the heart, which is the hub of your own beings.
Circulation and Homogenization
Rub the palms of your hands yet another time and, as you keep them crossed, pass them over your belly, pubis and legs, going down as low as you can, without ever losing your state of relaxation.
In that way, step by step, and through the medium of subsequent operations, you will have succeeded in polarizing your entire being. The irradiation of the idea, which had initially started from you, will come back to you, whereupon it will circulate fully 86.
Activating your connection with the infinite
The entire fruit which the exercise is meant to yield would be lost if, after having carried out the aforesaid operations, the disciple let his mind rove around at the mercy of a diversity of thoughts.
The complete state of polarization of the body must thus be followed at once by a state of “absence of thoughts” comparable to one’s sleep. It must be a moment when we gain access to “nothingness”. Sleep, or even “nothingness”, is indeed the state by which our diurnal being is “dreamt”. We might think that our individual life is but a mirage dependent on a contingent mode through which the different “entities” comprising it are kept in balance: Actions, thoughts, values, and so on. In order to be able to alter this mutually interlacing thread, we must first annihilate our own selves, so as to enable our beings to achieve a recombination of their selves on a new basis.  Sleep is the daily representation of one route through which such self-annihilation might occur. We thereby step past the threshold of diurnal consciousness into the space of power.
Due to the aforesaid, as soon as the polarization of the body is finalized, you should place yourselves in the position which allows you to sleep most comfortably, whereupon you will keep trying to relax yourselves as best as you can.
Exercise 52 – The infinite
Watch a light in front of you, after which you should carry out, with your head, some movements in the form of a reclined "eight" (?), in such a manner that the pupils of your eyes are forced to undertake the said movement.
After some thirty seconds, close your eyes, lay the palms of your hands over the eyes, and keep your eyes shut all the way until the image of the residual luminous trace has fully disappeared. During the period when the residual image is going to subsist, do not think about any thing at all. Limit yourselves to exclusively watching the transformation of the luminous forms. After a while you can open your eyes, as the exercise would have drawn to a close.
Alternative method
We can of course implement the exercise even during normal sleep. If you happen to be lying on your bed, rest the tip of the middle finger of your right hand on your forehead, precisely by the hollow dip which lies slightly above the base of the nose, in the space between your eyelashes. Having done that, exert an energetic and uninterrupted pressure on your skull, without going to any extreme length. You must fall asleep in that very position.  Before doing that, however, focus your thought on the sign of the mathematical infinite: What is required is to mentally trace, without any break and for progressively longer time spans, the mathematical sign of the infinite ?, which resembles a reclined 8. Imagine yourselves, therefore, being able to see this immensely huge sign shine out in great relief against some dark background. You must, starting from any point, follow the continuous curve, without ever taking off the eyes of the mind. Let go of yourselves afterwards. As soon as you have fallen asleep, the pressure exercised by the finger will come to an end naturally. This light pressure is going to facilitate “ocular convergence”, as well as to create a favourable state for accessing subtler dimensions.
Final considerations
The final result turns out to be exceptionally brilliant, and one exceeding any prior expectation; all our students recount the fact that they feel better already in the immediate aftermath of the implementation of the exercise. It would however be an error, and an exercise in self-deception, if one were to embark on this work without having first gone through the stage of implementing the exercises set out in the first part of this book, which fulfil the need of improving attention and presence to oneself.
Practical annotations 
During the subsequent stage of wakefulness, you should assist your power of suggestion to the best of your ability, in so doing striving to obey the command you have issued to your own selves. “There is a psychological law to the effect that, whenever one surrenders to a passion,  resistance to it becomes increasingly more difficult at the time when an identical chance to indulge in it emerges later; whereas, on the other hand, every effort which aims at repressing it, makes it easier to attain the following victory over its urge” 87.
Ponder the meaning of this truth, and act thereafter in conformity with its dictates.
Whoever might elect to devote his self to these practices is going to realize how the first attempt often proves to be insufficient to ensure the attainment of success, or will at least realize how any success at that early stage is fleetingly short. Nothing to worry about: Even assuming that the purpose had not yet been attained, the effect of this incipient attempt at self-magnetizing would not be laid to waste, as it would have paved your way and caused the subsequent stages to proceed more smoothly. Persevere with it during the following evening, or when you are in a position to grant yourselves a second formula which is identical to the first one, and then cling to this practice regularly, with an unflinching confidence that you will reap the benefit of ultimate success. Let us emphasize the point once more: We can easily eliminate, merely by practicing for a few fays in accordance with the foregoing, habits which have become deeply rooted and firmly crystallized over a period of many years. 
There are some people who fail to extract from the methodology of this work all the consequential fruits which it might regale them with, due to the fact that, although they have grasped it by their understanding, they soon become weary of it. What occurs in this connection is exactly what takes place in every other field of life: The brain must necessarily get used, it must train itself and hone its proficiency in this specific path. If you, accordingly, desire the best results for yourselves, you must strive to train yourselves to put the method into practice.
The technique, as described by us here above, might seem to be long. That is only the case, however, when one is learning. Step by step, the various operations which make it up will rapidly follow one another. Not more than a few minutes are needed to out best trained students in order to go through the full procedure.
Method 3 – Indian Self-hypnosis
“Spirit represents life, of which the mind is the builder. The result thus produced is reality!”
(Edgar Cayce)
The following technique is especially suited to the purpose of bringing about physical results. A typical feature of Indian self-hypnosis is the fact that it confers a great deal of importance on visualization and projection 88. 
                          Scheme of Indian Self-hypnosis
Visualization of the scene one desires to see actualized 
Taking the scene to the level of the heart and charging it with emotions
Taking the scene to the level of the navel, at the centre, that is, of one’s own being 
Beginning a 6 3 6 breathing until one gets to the point where he feels a kind of energy
Visualizing a light at the base of the nose, under the eyelids who are kept closed 
Sending a light to the scene
Carrying out an act of deep exhaling, in so doing sending the scene inwardly and feeling it turning alive
Giving thanks!

6 3 6 Breathing 
The time each breath should take consists in six units, while the retention time comprises three units and the exhaling time six units. 

Method 4: Becoming Creators of our own Reality
We are setting out here under a series of beneficial approaches to the effort of changing reality around us.
The phases through which the projection and creation of a new reality will pass consist in four phases: Inspiration, projection, scanning, and, lastly, thorough purging.
a) “INSPIRATION and CREATION”. — This first phase consists in defining what is it that we want, and elaborating a direction for the actions aimed at accomplishing it. What this phase thus essentially amounts to is to reliantly call upon that part of our selves which is steeped in “globality”, for the purpose of working out directions and possibilities. We might implement this phase in two possible ways, which we shall refer to by the names “classical” and “accelerated” or “modern”.
The “classical” way encompasses two distinct moments: The first such moment is in the evening, at the time when we have concluded our daily work (better still, just a short while prior to going to bed), whereas the second one is in the morning (preferably before one has eaten anything).
In the evening, we should submit to ourselves the data in respect of which some inspiration is required. We should submit to ourselves the constituent elements of the problem requiring a solution. “Here is what I want”. By secluding ourselves to our best capacity, we might be able to focus our undivided thought on the obstacles we are called upon to surmount, on the different points  concerning which we neatly perceive the route leading us to their successful implementation. In this manner, we would be creating an “accumulation of thought”. Let us also think of possible solutions, without however straining ourselves excessively in the process. We should in any event think that we are eventually going to find a way out of those problems. We ought to say to our own selves: “This is what I like to see materializing irrespective of any thing”. 
The time required for the accumulation of thought which is suitable to activate the answer ranges from ten to fifteen minutes. 
If more than just one problem exists, you should classify them, first and foremost in order of urgency, and then direct your attention to each one of them separately.
Thereupon, once the data or constituent elements of the problem occasioned by the circumstances are properly present to the spirit, it will become necessary (while taking care to still maintain one's attention to this mental picture) to turn towards another, vaster plane within our own selves, as if we were opening ourselves up to the infinite, and to follow such self-orientation by inwardly articulating our firm resolution to obtain a reply. The most effective form of such inward formulation would be an open-ended one, but that does not detract from the fact that a closed form, too, might be able to create a stimulation: «I must find a way of getting to the heart of this whole matter» — or even better: «I attract to my person the inspirations which can benefit me in this specific connection» — «I want to acquire a clear idea of what I am required to do in this regard», «I wonder how many different creative methods I might resort to in order to be capable of solving such a situation”, or indeed any other form which is essentially identical to the ones we have listed above. People who are exceptionally talented, that is, those who think in neat and forceful ways, ask themselves questions marked by the quality of being precisely defined, and escort the act of posing those questions to their own persons by such an intense desire to get a reply to them that the result cannot but materialize very rapidly.
As for the second phase, to wit, the phase during which we set ourselves in a reflective state so as to gather those inspirations which have become defined in the course of the specific day or in the days immediately preceding it, it is a phase which is gone through, therefore, after we wake up from sleep. That is the time when the soul, being steeped in a more passive condition, displays a more pronounced receptiveness to the vibrations which befall it. The whole effort that needs to be made at this stage consists in keeping one's thought orientated towards the questions for which a reply is expected. Oftentimes, the reply thereto does not take place in one go, especially in those scenarios where the conditions sine qua non for a response to emerge are rather complex in nature.
Turning now to the accelerated or “modern” way, it is essential to emphasize that it is the method we practice more often. It is the same as the preceding one in terms of being structured around the said two moments, save that it will no longer be necessary to be either in the evening or in the morning for us to fulfil their purposes. This accelerated way might accordingly be gone through at any particular time of the day or the night, which explains why it is the version we normally require to be implemented in the course of our seminars. We shall utilize light as a form of aid. We will start by thinking about what we desire (until we succeed, as with the first method described by us earlier, in creating an “accumulation of thought”), and we will move from there to the task of staring at the light for some thirty seconds. As a last step, we are going to shut our eyes without thinking of any thing, staying anchored in the present and limiting ourselves to merely observe the luminous trace in the back of our closed eyes. Once this trace will have vanished completely, we shall reopen our eyes and identify a reply, assuming there is going to be any.  
You should take care to write down, or in any other way keep note of, whichever thing might come to your beings. Thereafter, if you so wish, you will repeat the procedure. There are times when solutions surface to your attention at once, in order for them to be subsequently followed by yet another set of even more valid solutions.
According to the modern quantum conception, both these paths, the classical and the accelerated / modern ones, address our “total” or “quantum” mind, and kick-start a reasoning which is other than linear, as it rather unfolds itself in a different manner, one which works on the whole rather than on the separate parts. Remind yourselves to stay in the present, in the now, at the time when you observe the residual image. It is in the now, indeed, that re-integration might find its actualization.
By proceeding in the said fashion, it will not be the conscious mind, i.e. our circumscribed reason 89, which discovers the solution, but rather our own global being. It is as if we gained access to that world which the ancient Greeks referred to as the world “of the universal beings”. This is an essential aspect for ensuring that what we want is not only valid, but also something which actually corresponds to our own selves.
2) “PROJECTION”. — After having defined what we want, let us now move to what we might more appropriately label the “creation”, within the physical reality, of a new reality. This phase has in our time been vulgarized by classifying it under what is named “law of attraction” and similar appellations. It represents that part of quantum methodologies which is best known among the public at large. Our goal must consist in bringing about an improvement of the human being, not just in attracting things which might possibly not even be needed by us. The best moment shall be represented by that time in the day when we experience the highest level of psychological-physical activity. Alternatively, in order to attain the required state, one might sometimes carry out energy-based exercises. 
Though seclusion facilitates projection, when one is properly trained he might be able to isolate himself and plunge into mono-ideation even in the middle of a crowd, by losing any connection with what surrounds him. 
How to implement Projection: This second exercise consists in daily activating the plane of possibilities  (virtuality), by transmitting to such plane a number of  mental representations accompanied by imperious acts of volition which are directed at their actualization. 
One can also legitimately make use of multi-stage methodologies, such as self-magnetization as previously elucidated. Alternatively, you might simply contemplate your own ideation and say to yourselves: “Here is what I desire, which is, moreover, something that is bound to be accomplished” —, meaning in a tangibly embodied form.  You must feel it as an actual fact, as something which is already in existence.
An additional way, which acquires similar validity the more you gradually become more present to your own selves, might even consist in simply pleading with the universe to enable the full manifestation of your potential. Potentially, in fact, you are already a “homo totus”, equipped as such with the totality of possibilities and capacities you need in order to achieve what you want.
The mental attitude plays an essential role. You ought to feel that the universe is one, and it is accordingly as if, around your persons, an invisible enveloping agent were to deploy itself, an agent the main function of which consists in recording the targets of your volitional urges and harmonizing them with the natural elements so as to ensure their concrete actualizations. As previously emphasized, do not solely aim at achieving material objectives. You should additionally consecrate some time to such asseverations as: «I attract the elements which are required in order to maintain my physical and moral wellbeing in a state of perfect balance» — «I am balanced” – “I drive way the opposite agents”, and so on and so forth..
3) “SCANNING”. — However good the will a person deploys might happen to be, it still occurs at every step of the way that errors are committed even if one puts whatever we have said into practice and effectively enforces the continuous self-control without which such practices would prove to be ineffective. Therefore, as we build the mental images, it might happen that we are going to omit some essential particulars, and that, even though the generic concept might be given effect to, the consequential results which are produced differ from the ones we had expected to witness. It is then by drawing on our memory, and by comparing what is actually unfolding to what we had desired, that one manages to realize the omissions and the mistakes we are inclined to fall into, and to accordingly centralize, so to speak, our way of conceiving and willing.
After all, by scanning whatever has forced its way onto our attention for some time already, viz. the trend of our business affairs, the new people we have established contact with, the diverse occurrences we have been active participants in, and by seeking to identify the relationship they display vis-à-vis our previous moods, our learning curve will expand tremendously, and we will be able to develop that «causal sense», the sharpness of which enables us to steer our physical and psychological activity to the utmost possible level of judiciousness.
The moments of relax and rest are those which are best suited to this particular exercise.
4) “PURGING”. — This one is, finally, a practice which ought to be carried out constantly. It might even be termed “ecology of thought”. We must in fact always bear in mind the general law governing psychological actions: “The thoughts which share the same nature attract one another; The thoughts with opposite natures, by contrast, mutually repel each other”. It is for example a good thing never to address a thought of distrust at another person; and never to make any one the recipient of your trust if he might go against his word, behave in a manner which would accrue to your detriment, etc. It is rather better to say to our own selves: «What might he prove useful for? Which are his good points?».
If you happen to entertain negative thoughts, like the ones we have mentioned here above, you should never lose track, whenever a person establishes a relationship with you, of the fact that he might possibly respond, by his mode of conduct, to your earlier suggestion, even one which had never been verbalized. It follows that you should examine such person in an unbiased and benevolent fashion, prior to passing a judgment or taking a decision. 
Whoever practices these techniques must feel sufficiently strong in his self as to ipso facto eliminate, as a result of the said feeling, any attitude which differs from the most imperturbable benevolence vis-à-vis his fellow human beings.
Those people whose modus operandi seemingly justifies contempt or total neglect are, after all, individuals whose psychological and physical condition has not yet enabled them to discern the true path. We must keep at a distance from them, until we deem ourselves powerful enough to influence them in a beneficial manner. It would however be a grotesque absurdity or a criminal act of foolishness to spare for them any thought, other than one of pity caused by noticing them in such a state, along with a moral incitement to them to change their character for the better.
The most percipient trader, indeed, always makes space in his accounting books for an item which he labels  «losses and profits». His wisest combinations might in fact reveal a weak spot which is going to occasion some losses. In the same way, we should coolly and dispassionately record any possible disillusions, on the basis that they represent most normal, albeit transient events, and we should still desire to discover where is it that evil springs from, by looking at the source thereof, without any procrastination, inside our own beings.
Whoever experiences our method, will often notice that a circumstance seemingly having no connection with his volitional urges arises, only for him to discover, pursuant to a more accurate analysis thereof, that opportunities we have searched for or coveted are actually ensconced within its folds. Possible occurrences which are seemingly the most unforeseen and calamitous ones must never disconcert whoever has knowledge. This kind of person is obliged to react calmly in accordance with the inspiration of the contingent moment, after making an effort to unveil the cause thereof. 

Part Five – Specific tactics
Tactics which are peculiarly suited to a number of different contexts:
Specific Magnetic Tactics of Fascination for business, sales, and interpersonal relationships 
Tactics and concepts of Presence which are useful for trading and the financial markets
Additional concepts of Quantum Coaching aimed at developing intuitive acumen and the ability to come up with new solutions (Trading and Internet)
Business, Relationships and Sales: MAGNETIC TACTICS
THE USE OF FASCINATION AND PRESENCE IN THE SPHERE OF PERSONAL RELATIONSHIPS

Fascination as a tool of Persuading
“He holds him with his glittering eye—
The wedding-guest stood still,
And listens like a three years' child;
The mariner hath his will.
The wedding-guest sate on a stone,
He cannot choose but hear:
And thus spoke on that ancient man,
The bright-eyed mariner" (Coleridge) 90

Personal influence is an inherent property of man’s  indigenous nature. 
The eye represents one of the essential elements of such  connatural human property. If, upon surveying the history of past epochs, we were to search for the reasons behind the success achieved by famous men from every age or nation, we would quickly reach the realization that this success always resulted from their ability to magnetically "fascinate" their addressees.
Plutarch, for example, recounts the fact that, sometime during his youth, Julius Caesar, who found himself close to the Island of Rhodes in Greece, fell captive to pirates who seized the ship on which he was journeying. He was accordingly taken prisoner. In spite of such occurrence, he constantly held sway over their persons. More generally, he stuck throughout to a rather particular and, to an extent, ambivalent interaction with the pirates. He in fact incessantly dealt with them as if he was the one in control of their lives, in the process uttering to them, several times, a threat to the effect that he would order the execution of all of them unconditionally once he had regained his freedom 91 (which is exactly what he eventually did); at the same time, however, and rather paradoxically, Caesar authored quite a number of poems which he submitted to the critical evaluation of his own jailers. We find in this short anecdote, which might be further supplemented by thinking of Caesar's magnetic look many people have made mention of, we can already discern the definition of a magnetic man who is capable of persuading others, who hangs onto the specific line he has chosen to pursue and who simultaneously throws other people into a state of “confusion”. Julius Caesar used to exercise his hegemonic domination over those pirates, to such an extent that it looked as if he was the actual person in charge of the ship rather than a prisoner in somebody else’s hands. Whenever he wanted to take a rest or go to sleep, he would forbid his "wardens" to make any noise, whereupon they would abide by his instruction unquestioningly. He would revile them and issue orders to them as if they were his servants, and they would be unable to disobey him at all.
Still on the subject of examples drawn from the old classical times, Cicero mentions a certain Titinius, who lived in Rome. Only through his look, this man, as related to us by Cicero, forced into silence the senator Curius (who was revered for the perfect eloquence of his speech), as the latter was launching an invective against him at the Roman Senate 92.
Even what Napoleon exercised at the time when he came back from his exile in the Island of Elba represented a fascination carried out by the voice and the eye 93. King Louis XVIII had dispatched the Fifth Regiment against Napoleon. The latter accosted the regiment alone, dismounted from his horse, and said, looking straight at the components of that military unit: ‘Soldiers of the fifth regiment, you surely recognize who I am. If only one of you wants to open fire against the Emperor, he is free to do so now.’ After a brief interval when no one uttered a word, the soldiers broke into a shout of "Long Live the Emperor", and then marched to Paris along with him 94.
The mere action of looking at someone, without anything further, is charged with meaning. It surely conveys a meaning of interest in such person. In truth, we look more often at the people who interest us or who are to our liking than at the others. Provided the eye is appositely trained, its power will be amplified.
Although each person has in himself the peculiar psychological and mental elements which enable him to impact on his fellow human beings, not every one makes use of such elements to the same degree.
We use the term "persuasive fascination" to denote the practical application of fascination within the context of daily communication.  The most glaring and typical manifestation of “personal power" consists in   the art of persuading 95. The person who holds the keys to that art is readily believed in respect of whatever he says, and evinces a form of hegemony over his fellow human beings. 
Apart from the aspect of competence, personal success rests on a person’s capacity to adequately manage his  own aptitude in establishing relationships with other people.
The laws governing such results are intrinsic to man’s very nature. Let us imagine a world devoid of any civilization: The world in which primitive man used to interact with his likes. All the scholars concur on stating that these precursors of our race, who are part of our distant ancestry, were accustomed to gather together and move around in groups, and that they had leaders and an actual social structure. When we observe the behaviour of chimpanzees, we will notice how, very often, a pair of such animals keeps on watching one another until one of them makes room for the other. What happens is that, through the look, a social hierarchy is given rise to. Man, too, possesses such “inbred hierarchy”.
Due to progress, such capacities acquire an increasingly greater importance in our society, given that the competition is becoming increasingly more cutthroat and that every success of ours depends on a multiplicity of contributing factors. 
It is indeed important for man, as far as his existence within society is concerned, to create a position for himself through the medium of work, his acquaintances and his behaviour. These represent utterly legitimate ambitions. However, in the light of the fact that one’s acquaintances, work and moral conduct are not always sufficient in themselves, it becomes imperative on us to acquire what we are lacking. An education which fails to open itself up to the secret of power and its successful deployment, an education which refrains from teaching the immutable laws that govern the power of persuasive communication, is surely incomplete. 
What is going to follow now is an introduction to the knowledge of the dynamics of Persuasion as linked to the dynamics of Fascination, and to the knowledge of how a person can at all times activate the deep mechanisms of the reptilian brain.
Three are the processes by which we generally impact on our fellow humans. Firstly, they are influenced by the use of the hands and by gestures; secondly, they are influenced by the use of the eyes; and thirdly, they are influenced by suggestions which one extends to them or by the content of what one is speaking about. Independently of such three ways, your intention and mental concentration will always represent essential components in the picture. It is, in fact, as if there was an invisible influence which simultaneously consists in a subtle emanation from a strong will to power and in a form of general impression which is produced by the combined effect of the three abovementioned processes. If we are prepared to concede that telepathy or transmission of the thought truly exists, - and plentiful people do not even allow for the possibility of entertaining any doubt to that effect, - we ought to recognize in this context the presence of a force which gushes out of this primal source. It is not for us to debate here about the existence or otherwise of this subtle emanation endowed with the capacity of turning an individual into a magnetic person, given that, assuming such a subtle fluid actually exists, it is subjected to the guidance and authority of the mind, and is developed owing to the exercises which have been set out in the course of this book. One’s look, when it is suitably trained, can seduce and subjugate. Its significance is far greater than the purely physical beauty of the eyes. What is required is other than lending them some kind of hard fixity. Rather, what we need to learn is to develop a special expression enabling our eyes to acquire their full splendour as well as a smilingly sweet force of  penetration. The exercises we have spread out in the first part of this work will have already taught you how to possess a potent look. 
Here is a list of some additional instructions in this regard:
Use of the look 
Mental Attitude: A powerful look must, of course, consist in more than a mere attitude: It must be an inward state. You will never be able to have an appearance of resoluteness without being truly resolute. It is not possible for you to carry out things you yourselves do not believe you are capable of doing. When one is facing LACK of such SELF-CONFIDENCE, all you could possibly do is to have a desire to implement such things. The lack of confidence, the absence of faith in yourselves, will curb your will to power to such an extent that you will be disabled from resorting to it at all. This is one of the most important aspects on which you should keep on reflecting without any pause. If you inwardly feel yourselves unable to influence other people, you will in no way have the possibility of actually deploying your will to power. You might do no more than nurturing an inner desire to influence them, but the said lack of confidence in your ability will act as a barrier against the free action by your will, and you will largely end up accomplishing no result at all. That is so on account of the fact that, whenever will is not robust, suggestion cannot be carried out well, and your eyes will be denied the chance of taking on the intended expression. You should remember that the eyes are the windows onto one's mind or even onto his soul, and that a feeble will is going to confer on the eyes a radically different expression from the one which is gifted to them by a robustly vigorous will. Further remind yourselves of the fact that, if you want to be as far-reaching an achiever as you would like, you are enjoined to have an unlimited trust and an undiluted confidence in your own ability to ultimately achieve some special result indeed. This faith in yourselves, this certitude about your impending success, will empower you to avail yourselves of the full reservoir of power you happen to possess, in order for you to thereby accomplish the goal you have set out to actualize in your life. The more frequently you are going to make use, in that fashion, of the entire will to power at your disposal, the quicker will be the growth of such will to power in terms of its strength, until it will eventually turn into a potent agent of your existence. The large majority of people believe they are actually WILLING, when in truth they do no more than DESIRING at best. Once you are able to learn how to will, as opposed to merely desiring, you will be able to work wonders, and to exercise, over whoever falls within the sphere of your action, an influence which shall truly be miraculous in nature. The bulk of people, in fact, have never developed their own power and will. They are unaware of how one should develop that either, and the little they have of such twin forces is a sheer accidental result or one engendered by a chance stroke of luck. This in no way implies that desire might not prove useful. What it means is that its benefit can at best emerge at a later time, as a secondary spin-off, at the time, that is, when you will have learnt how to “create” such desire in yourselves, how to almost recite it out instead of being victims thereof. In order to induce the spirit into a state of watchful vigil, such a desire would then act sometimes as the outer shell for what shall inwardly exist as absolute will. 
When you are talking: Whenever you accost somebody, you should always make sure to look straight at him. You might legitimately look into his eyes, as well as at the base of his nose, at the space between his eyes, or at his glands. Besides, in the event that you need to stare at him for a long time, you might change the spot you are going to direct your look to, from one slightly above the eyes to another one slightly below them, taking care however not to stop looking at that person, at least not before you have completed the presentation to him of the proposal you would want him to accept. When you shake hands with someone over whom you desire to exercise an influence, you should let your handshake and look be escorted by the desire to communicate mental orders.
Listening to your own selves talking: In order for your look to be effective, it must coordinate its specific action with the action which is undertaken by thought when it is conveyed through the medium of words. The following will therefore represent an essential element: "The look must never reflect a feeling which differs from the one deriving from one’s thought and expressed in the form of words. More specifically, it must never clash with such thought".
It is in fact by no means an infrequent occurrence that, in the course of a conversation or a discussion, one gets assaulted by thoughts which are extraneous to the issue that is being spoken about. These thoughts unconsciously give rise to changes in one’s expression, which would then pose the risk of being devoid of the level of inner conviction which is needed so as to impress the interlocutor. An extremely valid tactic in this sense is thus provided by the following motto: Hearing and listening to our selves talking. This must be done, of course, without giving the impression that one is following his own words, as otherwise the impression of spontaneity would be shattered.
During situational climaxes: When you talk to a person for a long stretch of time, you might rest your eyes by looking elsewhere at some stage of your conversation. When, however, you are going to approximate the end of your conversation with him, and you eventually reach the moment in which you want to produce the decisive effect, pay heed to properly look straight at the person you are conferring with, both in his eyes and at the base of his nose, and learn to make your look firm and protracted. The greatest advantages can be reaped from staring without blinking your eyelids at that precise moment. What is going to be produced thereby, at the very least, is a more or less patent state of fascination 96. That will unfailingly empower you to turn your interlocutor’s instructions to your own advantage. A restless eye, which closes down without a justification, will never influence anyone.
When walking into someone’s presence: If you walk inside an office so as to approach a man sitting by his desk, look at him well in his face as soon as he raises his eyes in order to welcome you.  He must cross your look at the time when the latter is already fixed upon his person. By doing as instructed, you shall produce a very powerful effect of surprise. Remember also that, once the conversation with him has begun, one of the golden rules is to limit your selves to talk about those issues which might be of interest to him. If you happen to be contradicted regarding what you are saying, avoid getting scandalized, especially if the individual who is refuting what you are saying is in the right. In the event that you believe yourselves to be in the right, it will be necessary to courteously adduce some arguments which might cause them to think over your points. An even more pressing requirement is never to adopt a triumphant attitude when you have succeeded in persuading them.
The ocular greeting: An extremely forceful tool, if you wish to lend power to the first moment of your meeting, is to think of something and establish within yourselves a particular state of being, a specific inner mood prior to walking into the presence of your interlocutor. A very effective method consists in giving birth, within yourselves, to the kind of attitude you would have during a chance encounter with a dear friend you happen to see again after a long interval. When the time comes, therefore, to get into the presence of people you are scheduled to meet, what is going to happen is that your eyes shall engage, without any conscious effort on your part, in what is termed “flash” or “ocular” greeting 97. When, in fact, we meet a person we had not previously come to know, it might happen that, unwittingly and unexpectedly, we raise our eyebrows for a very brief moment. That is something which, conversely, does not happen if the person in question is known to us in advance. It is after all an extremely rapid movement which is very hard to reproduce by mere gestures. If you, however, put yourselves in the state of mind, or we could say in the existential mood we have described a short while ago, you will carry out that motion spontaneously. Your interlocutor will start asking himself whether the two of you had not already met before somewhere, and at the very least, he will deal with you in a more intimate manner. 
At the time when you are about to formulate a business proposal: Do not direct your look elsewhere, and do not lower your eyes when you are about to articulate a business proposal. You should rather inquire about the object of your desire, and explain your deal in a few words, clearly and persuasively, by looking straight at the person you are busy addressing. 
Have a firm resolution to influence him, and keep in mind that you will have to do exactly what you would like him to do. Think of what you desire intensely. 
If you wish to influence a man, you should take care, once you have reached the kernel of the entire issue, the defining moment, not to allow him, if at all possible, to look at any thing other than your face. If you take your eyes off your person, in fact, he will get the chance to mull over what you are telling him. So long as he is looking straight at you in the face and you are busy talking to him, he will have but a meagre chance to reflect over the facts you are putting forward to him, in which event it will be more likely that he is going to grant his consent to the proposal without any further discussion, unlike what would be the case were he to be looking elsewhere. 
The “subtext”: This technique consists in thinking up within your mind, at the crucial times, such phrases as “this is indeed a very interesting proposal to your person, a truly valid proposal”. We would unconsciously change our look and expression, and we would notice how our interlocutor is going to consequentially respond to such a change. 
The “intended Projection”: A great resemblance with the immediately preceding technique is shown by the “active projection”. The psychologist Sigmund Freud had made use of the term “projection” in order to refer thereby to the phenomenon in term of which we might be able to “project” a mental image of ourselves over a specific individual. For example, an adult might “project” onto the traffic cop who slaps him with a fine the image of his father when he used to shout at him. We can then attain control over this phenomenon, as opposed to living it passively, and we can accordingly succeed in actually steering the conversation. For us to accomplish that goal, we shall confer on ourselves the impression of witnessing the emergence, in our interlocutor’s face, of the particular feeling we would like to see coming alive in him. One way of intensifying this intended projection is by imagining, shortly before the time scheduled for the meeting, or else in the course of self-hypnosis sessions, that we are going to meet, not the person who will actually confront us, but, rather, the exact type of person who corresponds to the projection we want to create; and by following that up by perpetuating such a situation during our real encounter. We might thus imagine, for example, to meet a very dear friend we are accustomed to confide in, in order for us to subsequently “project” this balsamic image onto our tangible interlocutor. The important aspect is to engage in such projection at the time of our first impact with the human interaction marking the planned meeting. Once we have managed to project our intended image at the beginning of it, our unconscious will later take over and perpetuate the projection automatically.
Sustaining attention
How to sustain attention: Here are some useful stratagems to attract people’s attention to the critical aspects of a particular conversation:
Method 1, which is used for the sake of sustaining attention: We might carry out a simple experiment: If the one you are busy talking to stops looking at you, you will find that, even though he might turn his eyes elsewhere, he will make use of that opportunity so as to be the one who in turn takes the initiative of looking at your face; as soon as he has resumed the action of looking at your person, you should also make sure to look at him again, straight in his eyes, as you would then be likely to score the final victory before he withdraws from the act of looking at your face. 
Method 2, which is resorted to so as to attract attention in the first place: Another method consists in using an object. Some salesmen take out a brochure or a folded pamphlet, and then display it to the individual they are addressing. After their interlocutor has watched the shape of that object, he will be led thereby to further look at the person who is doing the talking, and to listen to what he has to say. If you are endowed with a sharp and alert insight, you might then seize this chance and record your victory before your interlocutor stops looking at you. 
Other methods: It is still possible to do much more, in this connection, than what we have alluded to so far.  The student of this practice shall be required to resort to his personal ingenuity in order to cope with the circumstances which are going to unfold themselves. It is utterly impossible for us to supply specific guidelines in the context of this general writing. We would in fact need to know the individualized attitudes of the student, before we might venture to issue to him precise instructions he might require to abide by.
 
What to do when the other person is the one doing the talking
When another person is busy talking to you, there are two alternative methodological routes that might be actively   pursued:
Method 1 – Keeping one's self-control: The first method consists in refraining from looking at such person all the time. Grant him only your partial attention, and make sure to frequently deflect your look elsewhere. Do not look down, only somewhere else; implementing this method will allow you to ponder what he is actually saying. Those people who have not thoroughly studied this issue normally assume that, when a man is talking to you, and you are turning your look aside, your attitude must be due to the fact that your interlocutor has got you in his grips, and is thus exercising over you some mastery forcing you to look away from him. That is however a false viewpoint on the issue. If you are looking somewhere else, it is only because you are seeking to protect your own selves in the process.
It is thus no coincidence that a number of branches of psychology (such as Neuro-Linguistic Programming), have studied the way in which ocular movements become linked to reflection.  The mere step of making some room for yourselves has the capacity to grant you the opportunity to reflect and reason things out. In fact, however much your will to power might be strong, and however wide your cognitive grasp might happen to be, if you direct your look at a man all the time while the latter is addressing you in his speech, then, provided such man knows what needs to be done to turn the situation to his own advantage, he will no doubt end up influencing you. That is as certain as the fact that two plus two equals four. 
True, maybe you will not enact exactly what he would like you to do. True, it might happen that he is going to ask too much of you and you will accordingly turn him down. Nevertheless, in one way or another, he is going to have an influence on you. You might possibly concede to him certain things you would have denied his person if you had been in full possession of your faculties of reasoning. The man who pretentiously declares that no one is capable of influencing him is in fact totally ignorant about the laws in accordance with which human beings are influenced. The man who tells you he does not believe in anything, save for the matters he has personally pondered and reflected about, thereby proves, by that very statement, that his mind is actually unable either to  reason or think in a correctly heedful manner. If, in fact, he truly had the capacity to reflect and reason as he should, he would have undoubtedly recognized the fact that, in the course of his life, he had done and believed in several things he had failed to thoughtfully ponder at all, due to the simple fact that he had been influenced by someone else. He has lent credence to certain things because someone had told him they were true. It is far easier to give instructions on how to influence other people than on how to teach one to take precautions against being influenced by them.
Method 2: Increasing one’s own presence. An alternative method consists in increasing your self-presencing. What it practically means is that you shall look at the person’s face while you simultaneously pay a great deal of attention to your own body. What essentially occurs with this method, therefore, is that you “will remember your own selves” in the course of the conversation. A very simple way of actualizing such approach is to lend attention to one specific part of your body, such as your hand. In that manner, you will create something like “psychological validation", and you will notice your interlocutor gradually moving to your side, with an increasingly favourable disposition to you. This method is very powerful. You will observe how your interlocutor will keep on talking non stop, as he will ultimately feel at ease. At the end, he will be the one eager to conclude the deal.
In the course of the conversation generally: When we address a person by speech, we must constantly show ourselves to be duly attentive to the conversation, and we must never interrupt our interlocutor, however prolix he might happen to be. Our mode of listening must be a mode of active participation, one where the eye should play a role of essential importance. In the event that, at any given stage of the conversation, your attention were to drop, you should repeat to yourselves "it is interesting" or some other expression in that vein. Your look will then acquire the shape of an interested listener. You shall in fact learn much more about your interlocutor by paying attention to him talking that what would be the case had you been conversing about your own selves. Good listeners are, moreover, sought after more than talkers. We are even able to lead through the look alone while we are listening.
Leading through listening
Leading through listening: We might also, as we watch our interlocutor, think up some simple messages by using the technique of the “subtext”. Essentially, while we watch him, we are simultaneously thinking up in our mind some simple messages we are addressing at him. These messages often end up acting as "attracting magnets" of our interlocutor’s own thoughts. We may attempt to give a reasoned explanation of the way such technique functions even by relying on principles of simple psychology. Through the medium of unconscious expressions of the face, in fact, we shall gradually lead our interlocutor in the direction we would like him to take. Whenever, through the use of fascination, we enjoy a special rapport and prestige, and we indirectly suggest ideas by pursuing that method, our interlocutor will automatically adopt such ideas as his. You will observe, with a sense of marvel, that he might phrase to you the very proposal you had been personally elaborating in your mind. 
Additional cases
This type of practice necessitates very refined analytical aptitudes, given that one has to be able in this context to adapt to the idiosyncratic psychological character of his interlocutor. One cannot possibly come across two individuals who are exactly the same. Let us therefore supply additional indications of an even more specific nature with regard to the different cases one might encounter.
In the field of personal relationships: 
As stated by Guido Cavalcanti:
I received a very courteous answer  
from the lady who had earlier made fun of me
She said: “The woman who in your heart did place
with the strength of love her entire face
inside your eyes had stared at you so firmly,
that Love she then caused to appear" 98.
Those who especially desire to fascinate a person of the opposite sex might act in the following fashion: When you come into contact with the person whose trust you would like to gain, try before anything else to be present (Refer in this connection to the exercises set out in the first part of this book). When you address words to her, look at her by the base of her nose and, at the same time, formulate such thoughts as: «You find me pleasing: I am a likeable person, and you are obliged to love me — you will have desire for me”, and similar phrases which will have to be adapted to every specific case. Remind yourselves of the fact that nothing can be transmitted, unless you yourselves are feeling it in the first place. You must accordingly feel in your own selves whatever you are eager to see being nurtured. This will increase the effect produced by mental suggestions manifold times indeed.  Take care to keep your eyes open. 
Very important: Work on your own state of inner calm. Be informed by the thought that you actually have all the time in the world at your disposal. Avoid showing any sign of anxiety when you find yourselves in the presence of the person you would like to influence. Haste has the effect of destroying every impact.
Business and commerce: What matters in this field is to give practical effect to the entire force of suggestion which our student, assuming he has diligently and correctly carried out all the instructions which have been imparted during the first part of this course, is already in possession of. Let us recapitulate: Use must be made of one’s magnetic look, which is directed at the base of the interlocutor’s nose or between his eyes, and recourse should be had to auto-suggestions which are intrinsically congruous with the distinguishing character of the subject-matter dealt with in the conversation. Remember that your self-confidence and the ability to use the art of persuasion are both dramatically crucial elements of the picture.
The greeting 
The greeting 1 – general concepts: At the time when you greet someone, you should gather your mental energy. Make use of a suitable subtext, such as “what a pleasure!” The greeting must be both cordial and sincere. Your handshake ought to be warm. Show your friend or your client that you are glad you are meeting him; inquire about his health. Avoid the trap of indulging in stereotypes excessively. Talk to him about business (or any other subject that might be of interest to him) with solicitous care, without however being impolitely obtrusive, and listen to him with a palpable show of interest, by looking at him in the eyes as much as that might be needed to induce him to talk. The implementation of that will increase his sympathy and trust.
How to greet 2 – specific techniques: Another excellent method, as you greet any such person, consists in slightly bending forward, by standing in your tiptoes and simultaneously fixing your gaze at the base of the nose of the individual you are busy greeting. Accompany that by shaking his hand in a somewhat warm manner. The implementation of this form of greeting will in fact facilitate the process of “ocular convergence” and the attainment of focus on your interlocutor.
Conclusive remarks
The result one obtains depends on more than one variable: The relevant person’s desire, the thought he has used, his look, the words and gestures he has resorted to, are all factors which shape up his ultimate accomplishment. The elements we have listed are the essential ones. It is important that we should perfectly coordinate these factors, the more so as our interlocutor has his own reactions, reflections and interests. That is why, in order to produce a truly powerful result, a prior psychological or at least physiognomic analysis is required. It would be preferable for us to be alone with our interlocutor. The presence of additional people, in fact, might have unforeseen effects, unless one enjoys undiluted prestige and charisma over the entire group, in which event its presence might actually play the role of a multiplier of your influence, thereby increasing your subjective impact on the relevant interlocutor.
Another important component is the state of relaxation of such interlocutor. Ensuring the existence of that state might be availed at times by the action of being able to touch upon elements which are peripheral vis-à-vis the central idea. We must also bring that in relation to the fact that we should take the interlocutor's acceptance of the central idea as granted. For instance, a doctor trying to push a person to consent to his admission to hospital might say to him, ‘Do not forget to bring along some reading material’; a salesperson, on the other hand, will always focus on speaking of the benefits which are attendant on purchasing an item, rather than on the purchase itself, and so on and so forth. The significant aspect is to think and visualize whatever one is saying. 
Fascination is a tool for suggesting ideas without awakening the conscious mind. In order to communicate emotionally with a person, one must necessarily use language in a special way. We should remember in this connection that to level criticisms or pose questions might have the effect of waking up the critical mind. It is therefore important that we should already know what to say, and that we should talk about aspects which do not involve one’s critical faculty. 


Selling and negotiating on the strength of fascination
Let us now try and analyze in detail the three phases which shall enable you to clinch a rapid deal. These phases are founded on techniques of fascination and open-eye hypnosis. This is indeed the original method as taught by Prof. Erminio of Pisa 99.
 
1. Organization.
2. Visualization.
3. Presentation (A.I.D.A = Attention interest desire - acquisition).

1. Organization
It is advisable to always prepare any meeting accurately. That will ensure satisfaction on your part as well as on the part of your client: Both of you are going to lend value to each other’s time. 
In exceptional cases, whenever you happen to pop up without any prior appointment, after having introduced your person by stating your name, you should begin by addressing your interlocutor as follows: «Mr. Franco, I am Mr. Rossi from company such-and-such. The reason behind my visit is, first of all, to have the pleasure of making your acquaintance ... Might you be so kind as to allow me five minutes now, or do you actually prefer to receive a phone call from me during which we might arrange an appointment?» The answer is going to be as follows: «Please tell me ... what is it all about?». Set yourself in the mental state of one who has already  arranged the appointment. Bear in mind that sincerity  always pays, whereas deceit and the use of subterfuges will not take you far in any situation whatsoever. 
Critically re-examine every meeting. You will thereby gain time without increasing your working hours at all, simply by programming matters in a rational and intelligent way. 

2. Visualization
Having familiarized yourselves as a result of your daily practice and on the strength of a form of hypnotic trial which is no longer unconscious, you shall then be required to devote yourselves, every evening before falling asleep, to the art of tele-psychology or distance influencing, by visualizing the visits or meetings which are going to take place during the next day. This is how you should do it:
«Lie down on the bed, with your eyes closed, reclining on the back. Keep your hands down the sides, your legs nicely stretched, and impose a state of total passivity upon your body. Each one of you should imagine himself being a cloth doll, deprived of any nerves ...
Thereafter, fully relax your muscular system, and free the mind from anything which concerns the physical body, thereby attaining a state of absolute motionlessness. Your will must be calm and intense».
Once you have reached the desired condition, move on to the following four mental representations:
1. Visualizing the prospective client as sitting in front of you and submitting to your influence while you smile at him.
2. Induction and its resultant effects, by surveying the different phases of the potential sale down to its minute details.
3. Visualize yourselves being brimful of vitality! Visualize the inevitable consequence that the client will gladly accept your business proposal.
4. Focus the imagine of the client at the time when you help him feel satisfaction about the item he has purchased (Your volitional push will have to be undiluted and characterized by a robust yearning to have a neater vision of the mental representations thus created, as if you were by a movie hall).
Picture yourselves being successful! Let us become what we think we are!

The morning of the following day, prior to actually beginning negotiations with client, go mentally, for no more than forty seconds, by means of rapid mental flashes, through all the various stages of the sale as carried out by tele-psychology the night before.   Results will punctually materialize ... It will be your own client who will do the sale for you: He is going to buy because you would have helped him get what he desired. You would have been on his side. This is the big secret! The goal would have thus been attained, to the full satisfaction of both of you. All that will be needed is to always speak the truth: The truth is in need of no miracles, just as no miracle can ever succeed in validating what is false. Always congratulate your client once the deal has been struck and he has placed with you the order; remain behind to chat with him for a while, become his friend, and, before you bide him farewell, ask him to supply you with a list of «active references». The energy and resoluteness you are going to utilize while you do your sales will have turned out to be fully successful: No one will possibly be able to counter your will, which has been moulded and trained to perfection; you have become the owners of a power, of a live and real force which, the more it earns your confidence, the more it will assist you in routing any adversity or discomforting opposition. This will open up all roads for you and succeed in demolishing iron walls, until such stage when neither chance nor destiny might debar or restrict your hypnotic power. 

Enthusiasm combined with an open smile, organizational skills wedded to competence, sincerity, lavishing appreciative remarks and praises, and the exteriorised actualization of your steely resolution, this big hypnotic X-factor, will all converge so as to enable you to conclude any deal in a short period of time.

Do one thing at a time, without hastening. Rather, do that one thing well, and apply yourselves to it on a daily basis. The awareness of your inner powers will set you apart from all the other people; you will possess inside your being a state of calm, a strength which is indeed unknown to the majority of persons, namely, the certitude that you are able to steer the action and influence other individuals thereby. That will represent the «x factor» which is going to be noticed, felt and admired by the masses. These mental states will exercise a suggestion over your fellow human beings: The   magnetic force, your self-confidence, the immense energy you are capable of irradiating, all those elements will empower you to go places, to be well liked by people, and to finalize any business deal.
Presence, and Keys to the attainment of Personal Power
The abovementioned techniques of involvement and fascination are part and parcel of an even higher overall picture. 
The concept of Fascination, in fact, becomes linked at that point with the gradual development of a personal  "Power" 100.
An essential role in the process of retrieving one’s power and mental clarity is played by the process of de-mystifying. How much energy do we indeed spend in the construction, and even more so in the maintenance, of our individual reality and our array of habits?
Scientific researches have indeed shown that an adult is engaged in some kind of mental work even during the moments of quiet. The assumption has been put forward that such an incessant functioning is designed to “construct reality”. What we call "reality" is, therefore, as a matter of ordinary business, a construction of thoughts, though one which stays unaltered, since average man is afraid of chaos and the uncertain.  
Presence leads us to have conscious realization of such a fact. Presence is indeed devoid of any investment, since one finds in it consciousness of the present.  Presence is what guides us to the essential layer which underpins consciousness. Some techniques approximate the actualization thereof, insofar as they succeed in demystifying several things 101. An additionally important element is to make our objectives clear to ourselves.  Presence, however, goes even further, as it works on a non-verbal level as well.  
The essential underlying concept
In order for us to master this higher level, the following are necessary prerequisites:
Knowledge of the techniques of fascination which have already been set out here above;  
A higher level of attention and presence to ourselves, which might be defined as “a second level” thereof.
The path to attaining even greater success through fascination in the sphere of inter-personal relationships goes through increasing our level of consciousness.
The person who is present to his own self is a person who additionally possesses conscious awareness of his own mental mechanisms and the ability to subject them to his control, including the mental mechanism consisting in his personal capacity to be fascinated and to fascinate others in turn.
What we mean by “presence in the action”
With the simple techniques of fascination, one aims at achieving immediate results. Emotion and enthusiasm often supply, therefore, the necessary propelling fuel. One is however dealing, in this regard, with a primary level, one where the recommendations “be enthusiastic” and “have fervent desires”, might accordingly occasion results in spite of the fact that they cause a far-reaching consumption of mental energy.
As for the (second) level we are busy describing now, there can no longer be emotion, and there is an extensive increase in one’s attention.
What is essentially witnessed at this level is a sharpened self-control, and control over the surrounding environment. The average man sometimes gets into this state in situations characterized by extreme levels of  danger or risk, being situations where he has to lean on the entire range of his strengths so as “transcend his own self”, and achieve “the impossible”102. 
The hub of this higher level of functioning lies in the fact that, whereas  simple fascination might even be achieved merely through emotion and the desire to actualize the intended result, this higher form of fascination can only be reached via an absolute self-mastery 103. This is a very Yang technique 104.
The fundamental aspect is the double level of consciousness, the first such level being directed at one's immediate sensory nature, and the second one being orientated so as to face the action which is being undertaken. 
At the beginning, the path to the development of presence aims at being steeped, to an increasingly more more pronounced extent, in the dimensions of one's immediate sensory being. That has the effect of accentuating our level of vigilance and perception, thereby enabling us a greater extent of effectiveness. As for this higher level, we find that in it I am conscious both 1) of the fact I am speaking and 2) of what I am saying. In essence, therefore, I am being conscious at a dual level: I have in fact sensory consciousness of what I am doing (this represents the basic layer of presence, the one we have begun to develop through the exercises of the first part of this book), as well as consciousness of the meaning I confer upon things. An analogy one can draw for the sake of illustrating this concept is the one of a car: It is in fact like driving a car at a very high speed, when the driver pays attention to every thing and at the same he must, of course, know where he is heading for.
Drivers are indeed appreciated precisely because of this capacity which enables them both to have a strategy for driving and to be simultaneously alert to the faintest noises, movements etc of the car.  
The same principle lies behind power as it is experienced in everyday life. Most people have power in the small things and thus succeed, the way a child would do, in obtaining what they want from others by being insistent, although that might not be what they truly desire, and is other than what they want in life. Any such person spends his existence in single isolated moments which are detached from a continuous form of self-consciousness. He switches from joy to sadness, breathlessly panting in the pursuit of something he has forced himself to achieve. At the end of the road, he realizes that he has not lived existence, but that he has rather been lived by it. We lack power because we lack consciousness. The more, however, we increase consciousness, the greater the power we come to have, whereupon we might actually live out existence.

To sum up: By moving forward on the road of developing presence, a person might become conscious not just of  the specific instant, but even of the kind of action he is engaged in. A practitioner of this technique always knows what he is doing. Most human beings are unaware of what they are doing, and live only by the surface of their beings. This is what "having power" actually signifies to those who practice this technique.
When this stage is reached, one becomes powerful, and he thus unravels the global design in his relationships with other people. 
How does one develop this type of presence?
Here are some ideas. 
Exercise 53 – The march
One exercise might consist in walking without mentally guiding one's march. We in fact inject many mental formulations into our act of walking. When, as we carry out this exercise, a certain point is reached, we become consciously aware of how “our own body wishes to walk”. Out flanks, too, become for instance free.
We can observe how this exercise encompasses two levels of coenesthetic perception 105: The first one, comprising  sensations, is pure, whereas the second one is located in the body which manages to find its balance and true position. 
Finally, this kind of presence might become connected to energy sensations. 
Exercise 54 – The enumeration 
Another interesting exercise consists in enumerating whatever one is doing 106. For example: I am turning the steering wheel to the right, I am pressing on the  accelerator, etc. This exercise must be embarked upon at the initial stage, so as to augment one’s consciousness, not only the perceptive one but even the consciousness of what one is busy doing. After such initial stage, one should of course stop talking while he acts.
We must of course take care not to confuse this exercise with a form of materialization. We are in fact dealing here with primary descriptions rather than with reflections, with concrete facts 107. We can discern the fact that this variety of exercises adds to the usual exercises centred on presence, which have been set out earlier in this book, such a level which prevents one from thinking he can practice “presencing” while in actual fact he is sleeping. 
Whoever is less present is less dense as well, and his attention “jumps”, without being constantly there. During business negotiations, for instance, a person lacking the ability to exercise mental control will lose himself in his thoughts a thousand times.
It follows that, during communication, there are voids inside which one steps. These “voids” are not just “psychological”. There is also a higher dimension to such phenomenon. How many times, for instance, we omit doing something only because a voice inside us tells us not to carry it out? In an identical fashion, it might happen to us that we act simply because we follow an inner voice urging us in that respect. It might be legitimate for us to think that, perhaps, all of us are related to one another and are able to hear some messages in these voids. Among the exercises which complement the development of presence in the action, we are finally going to mention even “distance attention”. What fundamentally occurs with it is that we are focused on the other person even when he is not there 108. 
If you are in this state, you will discover chains of concatenated events which are going to provide you with  solutions.
The concept of “Coherence Field” 

We do not truly perceive reality. All we do is to perceive one part of it. A key concept in the applied science of presencing, as well as in fascination, is the concept of the "coherence field". Every person creates a coherence field which extends between what he perceives of the external reality, his thoughts, and what he actively does. In our life, therefore, we define a “coherence field” on the strength of the coherence which is established between thoughts and mental direction. By increasing presence, we create a different, denser coherence field, and the other person, the one with whom we are dealing, can no longer control such coherence field. This other person comes in and becomes assimilated into our own energy field. He is disabled from controlling any thing any longer, since every thing is being controlled by us. We are accordingly facing a very reptilian phenomenon, something emerging, that is, from the more reptilian area of the brain. We might in fact conceive reptiles, the most primitive animals, as being marked by a different attention towards the world around them. An illustrating example of where a coherence field operates is the arena of seduction. Many people feel "carried" towards another person by something bigger than themselves. In actual fact, the one that falls in love is some being of ours which is vaster than our mere conscious self. We cannot talk, in the case of seduction, of some grounding decision, even though, in some instances, a person might desire to attain a specific thing. If we fail to get where we aimed to be, it means that our coherence field was not sufficiently strong 109.
It is important not to fall inside the other person's game,  and to “thicken", which is a term we use in order to refer to increasing one's presence. At that stage, in fact, our  interlocutor will end up losing any point of reference. 
He might even start sensing some changes in his way of perceiving reality 110.
The human being is in actual fact very subtle. It is extremely easy to go past the immediate surface of his being. If we are very present, we might actually get to the source.
The coherence field 
The concept that, through consciousness, presence is thickened, leads one to the thought that we might perhaps be made of energy. The more present we are, the denser we become. Powerful things might then materialize, since we would be creating what is capable of being defined as a “coherence field”.
In this discipline, an important factor consists in differentiating between coherence field and coherence as such. The majority of human beings are sufficiently  coherent in what they do. The problem is that one might be coherent in error as well.
By contrast, the coherence field is a field of attraction. It is like a validation of the reality which our interlocutor steps into.
Varieties of Coherence Field
There are two coherence fields: 
1. Superficial
2. Deep
In order to get to the foundational level, demystification is a must. Human beings are prey to their own ideas, though ideas are in actual fact serviceable aids of a person. This is why it is advisable to come down to the  reptilian level, which is indeed what we actually do during the process of fascination. The concepts of the reptilian are in fact very basis. We should strive to be very reptilian by reaching, essentially, a level where there is no space for emotions anymore.
We have to ascertain how many selves of ours (different personalities) exist, and thus get to the bottom of things.
We are dealing here with another dimension: Either one is immersed in this dimension or he is caught in his non-stop mental dialogue. At times, this state might be looked upon unfavourably in certain circumstances. A person who is present instils fear in some people, inasmuch as he does not involve himself in their frivolous games. These concepts open up our mind to the comprehension of how presence should be linked to presence in the action. Presence allows us to enjoy where we happen to live. No stress is involved in exercising this kind of presence. It is in fact the very opposite of stress. In that manner, we would be able to understand what the thought that we are living in the best of possible worlds truly means.
The creation of a Power-related Coherence Field and the concept of time 
The time horizon for creating a coherence field is short  (as it consists after all in a technique linked to presence, one where attention is focused on the now – it is in any event possible to think that time does not exist, and that the appraisal of things is rather moulded upon images one is conscious of). In order for us to be able to exercise such power, we must avoid being excessively steeped in reasoning.
Phases of the action required in order to interact with a coherence field 
In order to exercise the power of the Coherence Field, more than one phase has to be traversed. These phases are technically defined as “terrains”. 
The “first terrain” is to have some antecedent grip over the person. What will surely prove to be useful in this initial phase are the linguistic techniques which are taught in order to establish communication with our fellow humans. During this phase, we in fact communicate with the outermost part of the person we are dealing with, in other words, with his psychology.
Once we have created a connection at this level, a second and possibly even a third terrain might open up.
What occurs in the “second terrain” is that we are going to thicken this energy field of ours, to make it denser, whereupon our interlocutor shall sense our “presence”. Frightening things might be accomplished in this phase. Instantaneous hypnoses, too, might be generated when one enters this state.

Synoptic recapitulation of the different phases:
Presence: It is the foundation, the first level
Communicative Capacity: It is needed for the sake of laying  the "initial terrain"
Creation of a Coherence Field: It is the moment when we intervene at a deeper level than the level of the normal self, that is, the one in which we intervene, in order to bring about the realization of results, through a self which is ordinarily unconscious and which is linked to a person’s most profound layers.

 
Coaching and effective communication by using people’s role-related “trances” 
Whoever works on his fascination by following the path traced out in the present book will notice at once a growth of his influence over other people. Such a growth is due to the fact that most people are “asleep”, as they are in fact lost in a maze of conceptualizations and mental constructions which preclude them from being in the present, which is instead the sole thing in existence.
If we are in the field of working with our fellow humans, then the scope which is sought to be accomplished by a refined form of coaching consists in understanding the aforesaid truth and in creating a communication geared towards bringing about a growth and development of people’s potentialities.
This is a gradual process, and yet one which might prove to be highly productive for an organization, as it causes the members thereof to grow in a balanced fashion, which thing in turns ensures the organization’s own growth. 
The people we meet in life are in a “trance”: They dream of an imaginary future, without analyzing whether they can in fact reach it, alternatively, they “do as they see others doing”, and so on and so forth.
Let us take for instance what advertising does. It creates a link with dreams. We buy, for example, a particular product, because we are “fascinated” and “involved” by a certain advert or by fashion, which generates in us a lack of ability to engage in a logical critique. 
Thereafter, we think we have purchased something on the basis of its usefulness. Therefore, it happens quite frequently that, when we accept an idea which establishes a link with our “trance”, we subsequently rationalize that idea and persuade ourselves that our choice to embrace it was actually the fruit of some logical process.
The faculty of being able to choose is only active in that man who is present.
Whoever is less present is usually in a “trance”, as a passive victim of his thoughts. This is also the fountainhead of most conflicts: Every conflict has in fact inward roots, and arises because we cling to what pleases us while rejecting what displeases us. We have two possible ways of confronting those situations: One route is for us to go along with the interlocutor by accommodating his thoughts, while practicing a kind of judo whereby we can steer his strength towards the direction we ourselves desire. This method, however, normally has the effect of denting the mental attitude of that other person. An important alternative key for solving conflicts is to be present. To listen without letting oneself become involved. In that manner, we will direct attention towards a pre-verbal plane which antedates any belief, a plane where it possible to construct a more satisfactory and fulfilling way of living.
Role models
Many people are perennially caught in the grip of “either one is dominating or he is being dominated”. Such persons distort reality, as they view them purely as uni-dimensional. This process is also termed “negative hallucination”. The individuals who belong to this category want to understand which one is stronger: Are they stronger, or is it the other? As for the magnetic person, he operates outside this scheme of things altogether. He has only a few moments of restless agitation. His look is attentive while being simultaneously inquisitive. What ensues from it is the fact that the interlocutor is incapacitated from determining which stance he ought to adopt, and ends up being a subliminal follower of whatever suggestion has been put forward to him.
If, contrary to the other category of persons, we are very present, we might even influence other people by taking on roles which conform to the relevant type of activated regressions. This recourse to "role-playing", in fact, greatly facilitates the use of the whole spectrum of these elements. Roles represent hypnotic identities which are normally connected to regressive phenomena. If we adopt a certain role consciously, the other person usually adopts the corresponding one unconsciously. 
A practical way of proceeding along this path might consist in posing a few questions which allow your competence to shine out in full, whereupon you will cast yourselves into the role of a counsellor and be able to pilot the change your interlocutor should undergo. 
The “dreamer”
Many trances might even be detached from the roles that are played. We might for instance get the “dreamer”, who, in hypnotic terms, should be translated as the kind of person that enacts a “time distortion” by living in an imaginary possible future. From his viewpoint, the present exists purely as an instrumental stepping stone to his dream. At that point, a person who is present might lead such individual wherever he wants, simply by getting in touch with the latter’s “dream”. The degree to which a person accepts our ideas is influenced by his expectation. By recourse to the look, we can eventually lead him into the present and help him plan things in an efficient manner. 
The regression to an earlier age
One might likewise come across the kind of person who is experiencing a “regression to an earlier age”, and who will accordingly be inclined to behave like a child. This person, too, might be given assistance so that he can develop his potentialities, though, especially at the initial stage, we should try and understand his psychology and seemingly second his impulses.
Trans-national analysis has examined this phenomenon. Let us think of how a mother or a father communicates an idea to a child when dealing with him.
The subject wants us to address him either in a passive or in an authoritative manner. 
The passive manner is the maternal one. Having a rapport with the subject is an essential prerequisite for resorting to the utilization of this mechanism.
The authoritative manner is more fatherly in nature. Having prestige is a fundamental prerequisite to the adoption of this different mechanism. Let us picture the way in which father figures are perceived. They appear to be bigger and more powerful than the child. The keys to prestige and status are forever to be sought in being big and strong, as well in being wise and powerful. The  magnetic person knows how to acquire prestige in a non-verbal fashion, without at the same time activating critical resistance and forms of opposition in the other person, inasmuch as  the magnetic individual only acts on the strength of non-verbal tools. In particular, due to the fact that the magnetic attitude is not easily captured and forced into a restrictive frame, it tends to create a favourable setting for projections.
The result attendant on achieving prestige is, therefore, the fact that the other person initially regresses in age. He accordingly begins to function as a child all over again. If we pay watchful heed, we might detect a number of signals pointing to the regression we have spoken about: The voice undergoes a change, and the look is lowered. When a person is in a state of regression, prestige emerges as  the foundational element, as it stands for the child’s feeling vis-à-vis the father or the tribal leader.
In the field of sales, this type of communication is sometimes deliberately engaged in. Every single thing we add to our status or we subtract from the status of the other person, facilitates regression and acceptance of  ideas on the part of the latter. If he accepts to wait, we shall ignore him; when he later comes, he will be seated on an uncomfortable chair, and that fact is going to diminish his status. From a psychological point of view, we also gain further prestige by making use of extra-verbal communication: Sit down here, wait a moment, and so on ... We might inquire again from him about the reason for his visit ... The magnetic person, however, reinforces his prestige even on the strength of his mere non-verbal attitude and by posing questions, the combined effect of which is to place the other person in a state of  difficulty 111 and establish a link with behavioural models which have been learnt in the past. Assuming that we already enjoy a degree of prestige in the eyes of a person we are facing, relying on one of the dynamics of fascination will visibly actualize the most far-reaching result. Through the look, we can succeed in causing our interlocutor to shift from an intrapersonal trance (the regressive experience) to an interpersonal one. Once he is settled in the latter, we might lead the transformation from there, by helping him attain a higher degree of self-consciousness. This, too, represents one of the dynamics of coaching, provided it is carried out shrewdly, insofar as it will lead the mentee, at the end of the process, to be more conscious of his self and his potential.
Expectancy and prestige are two psychological mechanisms which strictly work hand in hand. If we express our ideas in a causally assured manner, they can be more easily adopted. Even though a proposal happens to be logical, it might be more interesting to put it forward through suggestion.
Exercise 55: Acquiring status 
In the course of a normal conversation, try and submit such questions as would have the effect of making your proficiency stand out. Observe the change of roles which is going to ensue from that.
Become dissociated from emotions
We then get other people who are extremely logical. From the viewpoint of hypnosis, they might be defined as “dissociated” persons. Through the use of fascination, it is possible to touch them in their emotions without them realizing at all what is taking place, which nevertheless causes them to undergo a profound transformation. One of the characteristics of logic is the use of loftier language, one that is in other words of a higher calibre. Yet the fundament of human behaviour is non-verbal. It often happens that the fortifying shield of logic is utilized only so as to resist the force of the emotion. Logical processes are however secondary processes when compared to the simple non-verbal ones. If we retrace our steps, we might then probingly ask ourselves how a given idea might have been conveyed without resorting to logical language. Before man acquired logical capacity, in fact, some other mechanism to regulate acceptance or rejection of ideas must have been in existence. It is legitimately conceivable that a person used to communicate an idea which was deemed likeable and which conformed to certain principles would experience the acceptance of that. The basic emotions which regulate the mechanisms of fascination are the same ones underlining acceptance of other people's words.
Additional Notes on the processes of  Fascination 
The processes of fascination belong to the deepest area of the brain. Let us now proceed to examine the various layers thereof, escorting such examination with the presentation of additional recommendations.
The first level - Personality and the Mental dimension
At a primary level, a person’s personality is, usually, already fascinated by an array of external elements, which jointly represent his "defence mechanism", one he deploys vis-à-vis whatever is novel. We are essentially linked to habits, inherited behavioural patters we have become familiar with, our specific environment, etc.
These are primary “trances” we might be able to penetrate without letting ourselves be ruled by the game as it unfolds itself, provided we are sufficiently present. 
In order for us to function at this level, we shall use a combination of both words and non-verbal communication. If a person is fascinated by a specific cluster of external elements, we can lead him by initiating our conversation in such a manner as to touch on them precisely.
That way, we will be following the itinerary which such person’s attention already follows in a natural fashion. It is at this level, too, that metaphors operate. Metaphors help us devise models for our mind. This is what many people refer to by the name of "process of rapport". By having recourse to verbal techniques, we might be able to "reproduce" the defence mechanisms of the person we are interfacing with. Through them, we can reach and penetrate inside the first level of personality 112. 
The Second level – The emotion
There is a second level of persuasion, which is the energy-related emotional level. Those people who have failed to work on themselves are prisoners of emotion. At this second level, it would be quite in order for us to ask ourselves the following question: “How much emotion am I required to convey so as to “strike” my interlocutor?”.
When we attend theatre, a show will be to our liking   based on the emotional charge it might succeed in transmitting to our persons. In the same way, the mind of our interlocutor becomes involved. If we manage to lend greater emotional force to our meeting with him, we would enjoy a more far-reaching effect, and attract more of his attention. Of course, a crucially important role is played in this connection by non-verbal communication, since we are operating now at a level which precedes the use of words. 
Third level - Biological
The third level of persuasive action is the foundational level, the level, that is, where action and the direction which action takes are located. Precisely because we speak of a direction possessed by an action, look is regaled with essential importance. That is so due to the link between look and the person’s mental direction. This is also the level of energy in all its diverse forms, and it is a level devoid of any mystification, one which is more «primitive» than the two previous ones. The salesman, for instance, is intimately cognizant of the fact that he is not going to eat unless he sells. It is at this level that the most significant processes of fascination occur. It resembles an energy which, as it emanates from the person, occasions a specific result. It is the biological level, and what acts at such level is the most primitive form of linear brain, one enabling a person to draw out the maximum possible extent of resources.
How to improve our operations in the Financial Markets by having recourse  to the Tactics of Presencing
Le tactics of presencing have a special relevance in the world of finance. The hardest law of the market applies to the world of trading, one where any single shortcoming of ours, be it at an emotional or at an organizational level, is brought into relief at once. It is accordingly important to exercise control over our mental side and over the sphere of our emotions. Trading is a metaphor of life. Life is a system within which you operate, and where you can win a lot just as well as lose everything. Plentiful individuals run through their existence as if in a trance, without realizing the opportunities which life dishes out, and which accrue in favour of those who know how to keep a state of indifference.
As for the those people who let themselves be ridden by  emotion, the trading they engage in is emotional and lacks  concrete substance.
If you want to engage in trading, learn not to fear anything and not to desire anything at an emotional level. 
This is what we call “presence in the trading”
This rule necessitates discipline. It can be started within the physiological context. After you have learnt the method of curbing external manifestations of emotion, you should study how to launch your assault against emotion right inside its very essence. What is therefore required is to get used to strip every action and every fact of its turbid emotional dregs, by reducing it to its pristine objective essence.
This technique can easily be explained by resorting to an illustrating example. You find yourselves by some mountain track, by the edge of a cliff. Suddenly, the fear of falling seizes your being; your legs are shaking, you are breathing heavily, and your vision is getting blurred. If you, instead of losing control, were to successfully reason out things coolly, to study your position the way a surveyor who is specialized in topography would do, to ask yourselves: «Is it or not factually possible for me to walk through this track», then the difficulty, the level of predicament you are facing, would be vastly reduced. A corroborating proof of the aforesaid is that a careless child will firmly move along that track, whistling some tune as he does so, whereas you had trembled at the idea of carrying out precisely what he executed so nonchalantly.
Any fact is either arbitrary or not. If it is indeed arbitrary, make your decision after a moment of pensive reflection; if it is not, give it up, exactly as you would relinquish the idea of landing on the moon, or else accept it a-critically as it is, without any further ado.
The simplest system to peel off any emotional vestige from a fact, to remove from it any slag left in it by your emotional side, is to immediately halt the process of piling up the rationalizing justifications causing the perpetuation of our anxiety, by simply deflecting your mind away from such rationalizations, while at the same time you execute the deep breathing exercise.
Being present also means to decide with one’s own head. As we are the ones who create our own life, we alone can then lay down our true goals for earning.
The most important thing, however, is to slay the  impulsive self.  How come we keep on repeating the same errors, whereby we buy at a time when we should be selling or we sell at the time where we should be buying, unable throughout that to exercise control over our own impulses?
Some people ascribe the repeated mistakes of traders who buy at the top of the ascending curve and who sell when the market price is at its lowest, to what is called "foolish human nature". That might be so. Nevertheless, even the mice used for laboratory experiments stop making the same mistakes after a while, and find the right way out of the maze following a few attempts only.
The "foolishness of human nature" cannot be relied upon as an excuse for the ongoing repetition of negative habits. 
What happens can in truth be explained on the basis of a lack of presence, and to the dominance exercised by a state in which our egotistic self gets the upper hand, whereupon we switch to a state of fear, of a lack of presence, of a diminished sensory attention, in short, to a state of “hypnosis”. What else might succeed in providing an explanation for the conduct engaged in by traders who endlessly reiterate the same infantile error, each time in exactly the same form, in certain instances for a number of consecutive years? When thousands of people either sell or purchase because “they are all doing that”, this, too, is hypnosis.
What are termed BUBBLES in financial jargon are usually the consequential fruit of mass behaviour. They are the effect yielded by "social hypnosis". By virtue of the impact of media, a large number of people decide to buy or to sell at the same time, all together.
The economic theory of a rational market is daily refuted by facts, since market movements are occasioned by the sum-total of emotional reactions coming from a multitude of different persons.
An effective trader who earns well must necessarily know  and understand these mechanisms, both in so far as they manifest in other people and in terms of how they manifest in his own self. He must have such knowledgeable comprehension of them as to free himself thereof and be accordingly able to function. 
The effective trader knows how to be present, and does not lower his attention because of emotion. The financial markets are ruled by hypnosis. What else, in fact, might be able to explain the phenomenon by virtue of which  some traders incessantly repeat the same mistake, unless we refer to a narrowing of their attention field?
In an identical fashion, how else, we may ask, can we explain the fact that even respectable institutions carry out actions which in the view of a less experienced observer as well might be judged to be more than merely audacious and risky?
Single individuals, too, might have a strong potential deriving from their position of authority which, as will be explained here under, is one of the source elements through which a suggestion can be deeply infixed in the human brain.
Authority, however, is not the only way in which one can operate. Simple words, too, might prove enough. There are many different routes that can be traversed so as to induce hypnosis. There are, moreover, certain particular states, called states of "wakeful” or “vigilant” hypnosis, in which the hypnotized subject engages in actions although he is seemingly fully awake.
Several public personalities use their language in such a manner as to induce hypnotic states in their interlocutors.
In doing that they pile up their prestige, which on its own is already a hypnotic factor, over some specific linguistic and gesture-based models. We are capable of realizing that by watching how they move their hands and by observing their method of conversing.
In some instances, these are abilities which have been acquired spontaneously, whereas, at other times, they represent capacities which have been deliberately mastered.
This book plays the role of an aid enabling you to become aware of those tools, and to learn how to practically turn  hypnosis to your advantage rather than allowing the opposite to take place.
The Trader
The figure of the trader has developed owing to the emergence of Internet and online trading platforms. The ease with which, nowadays, one can access markets and invest his own money at once in whatever he might desire has caused and is still causing many rich people to hope to earn large sums quickly, while remaining comfortably seated in front of their personal computers. 
This is no doubt possible, and yet the keys to be able to remain operative in the markets are located first and foremost inside our own selves: In the control over one’s mind, in self-discipline, and in the percipient understanding of a series of elements produced by the sum-total of psychological attitudes from millions of people.
The markets, in fact, are not fully rational, given that their behaviour is conditioned on the interlaced effect of so many individual psychologies. Therefore, a person who decides to invest money in trading without having a profound working knowledge of the laws governing the markets will have extremely thin chances of succeeding.
The concept of being present to our own selves, or self-presencing, is thus an essential tool of a trader. By the term self-presencing, we especially mean a particular  state of consciousness in which we do not allow ourselves to be "devoured" by the external world. In order for us to attain that state, an essential prerequisite consists in learning the art of "demystification". 

Demystifying bears the meaning of being capable of shattering those beliefs and emotions of ours which prevent us from effectively perceiving the world. Many people turn to the realm of trading because they desire to experience strong emotions, and consequently view it as a form of gambling where the chances of winning are high. 
Although this principle might even be valid, it is also true that, so long as we let ourselves be conditioned by the search for an emotion, we will not be able to allow money to emerge, inasmuch as we would be looking for something different. We would, therefore, lack clarity in our objective. Indeed, just as, in the field of human relationships, the frantic quest for strong and passionate emotions precludes one from establishing stable ties, in the same way the pursuit, in the arena of trading, of excitement or some other emotional goals, will tend to block the flow of money. 
Every one, after all, starts from sound premises. What however happens is that, as they traverse this path, they run the risk of realizing that things are not as they initially thought or imagined. It is at that point that problems begin to surface.
Among the various essential points, we would like to specifically channel attention to the following: 
Before you inject any money into the market, a fundamental prerequisite is to properly define an objective, and then to ensure that your own conduct is going to occasion the satisfying accomplishment of what you intend to see materializing. 
You should formulate for yourselves a good trading method, along with the personality of a Trader who knows how to be present to whatever he does.
The first thing we will have to learn is that we cannot possibly know the future, and that no one is able to foretell how, when, and at which ruling price a certain  stock or currency might sell.
In the domain of finance and financial information, we can lay our hands on whatever predictions we are looking for, concerning any possible kind of market whatsoever. There are some people who, in order to decide how they are going to invest the savings and in which market specifically they are going to do so, rely with confidence on information they might receive from friends, acquaintances, bank employees or brokers, or on information they have gleaned from articles written by analysts and published in magazines devoted to financial issues. Every person has his own subjective viewpoint and ideas on the markets, yet no one possesses the power of knowing beforehand what shall unfold itself. 
In some instances, it might possibly happen that the advices one receives actually yield a positive result. It is likewise possible that the opposite takes place, whereupon one’s investments fail to match expectations. 
Unlike other types of entrepreneurial activities, the trader must make immediate decisions. However, directly watching our money moving around in the market might cause our emotional side to achieve dominance upon all the rest, thereby giving rise to serious problems. 
What is it that should then be done so as to properly manage emotionalism? Some “automatic” methods are available in the market. Using a particular trading method means to determine in advance when, in which way, and how much capital might be risked in the particular operation concerned. That way, emotionalism will certainly have a lessened impact. 
The utilization of automatic methodologies, however, is not enough on its own. 
The truth, in fact, is that oftentimes it is not the 99% of those operations we carry out automatically which really cause us to earn, but rather the 1% of choices we make  BY USING THE HEAD.
What is, however, the meaning of “using one's head well”? The trader is a sole owner, who operates fully independently from anyone else, and yet he has to face the whole world. At present, because of Internet, competition has become global. From a virtual point of view, therefore, the trader looking at his computer monitor is facing traders who might well be located in a different part of the planet. It goes even further. Since all the people are transacting with one another, a natural consequence thereof is in fact the active emergence of a principle of natural selection, one which ensures that the most confident operators and those endowed with the most far-reaching self-mastery and presence will march on and secure the largest share of profits.
The following are the difficulties to overcome:
OVERTRADING: It consists in carrying out a large number of operations within a short period of time. It might in fact cause stress. Even more importantly, one who is guilty of it runs the risk of carrying out crucial operations wrongly.
HASTE: It is possible that the hasty trader will be swayed by emotionalism, which then forces him to buy or sell too soon 
FALSE REASONING: Here under we are going to reflect about the four more frequent cognitive errors  
CONFUSION ABOUT ONE'S TEMPORAL HORIZON OR OBJECTIVES: A trader’s goal is usually represented by a sum of operations bound together by a specific time horizon. Altering the time frames, and thus selling a certain product or undertaking a given action prematurely, might cause him to incur losses. 
SUSCEPTIBILITY TO EXTERNAL SUGGESTIONS: Institutions, other persons and a variety of additional factors might attempt to influence the trader, either intentionally or unintentionally. This phenomenon is termed social hypnosis, and it is particularly relevant to all the BUBBLES which might occur, and of which it represents the basic causative agent. 
Five Essential Qualities which a Trader should possess
In order to counter “social hypnosis”, the trader will be obliged to develop some ESSENTIAL QUALITIES: 
1. Presence, which coincides with Calm and Control over one's mental side: This is a state which is occasioned by "being present to ourselves". Though capable of making analyses about the future, a good trader must "stay in the present" and assess the situation clearly.
2. Freedom: Being free from emotional constrictions as well as from Rationality: It is a state which is linked to the trader's endeavour aimed at barring the invasive encroachment, by the reactions on the part of the brain's emotional side (limbic system), on his ability to make judgments. The aforesaid does not mean the trader has to be cold. It simply denotes that he ought to be Free from the danger of his own subconscious reactions dictating matters.
3. Understanding and being connected to his objectives: The trading which produces the best results is founded upon targeted goals. Being  FOCUSED is thus a necessary prerequisite.
4. Intuition and Lateral Thinking: We refer, by this term, to that ability possessed by our mind which enables us to avoid the trap of using only our logical side, in favour of a more comprehensive way which encompasses the capacity to grab and develop opportunities as well.
5. Intuitive acumen: It is a specific aspect of intuition, which will be elaborated upon in the course of the last chapter of the book. This aspect is closely linked to having the courage to gain access to one’s own inner resources.
In a global market, it is the best operators who drive forward and progress. In the world of trading, we can see in action an even more intensified version of PARETO’s famous law, which states that 20% of all operations actually yield an 80% of actualized gains.
Know how to set yourselves an objective
You must set yourselves an objective, which has to be established by recourse to presentification and the demarcation of a specified time frame. It must consist in a direction you are setting out for, as opposed to a continuous tension of the soul. If you were to ask the majority of people investing in the financial markets to expound to you what their goal is, they will usually find it difficult to point it out to you in any exhaustive manner. In their attempt at supplying an explanation, they will trace their whole motivational urge to a simple issue of   “earning money quickly and with little effort”. This phrase is born out of an emotion: The emotion of cupidity.
Emotions are extremely dangerous to trading. They lead us to hurriedly slip into operations where the likelihood of success works against us and where we invariably take up excessively big risks compared to our true possibilities. It is by now an ascertained fact, and one which even the State has realized, that we are fond of gambling and are prepared to invest a bit (or even a lot) of our own money in lotteries, in the contest for big gambling prizes run at national level, as with  Superenalotto in Italy, and in the jackpot machines which bars are furnished with, that is, in games where the chances of victory are exceedingly low, if not actually non-existent. We like the idea of trying to outsmart the system and earn a lot very quickly by investing a meagre sum. That is exactly what happens in the markets, especially as regards the young traders shorn of adequate experience. 
An aspect shared by many obese individuals is the great attention they pay to the issue of food. They would gladly like to keep a check on what they eat, and yet, as soon as they spot a plate of pasta, they lose their self-control. In a similar way, many traders, too, only focus on money and thus become its subservient slaves. A nice aspect which we should direct our attention to is, by contrast, the requirement that one should act well. Acting well denotes having a goal to pursue, managing money properly, and being realistic and present to the situation by endeavouring to do one's best. We can notice that, nowhere in the sentence we utilized to describe the import of “acting well", does the word "money" appear. One of the rules governing the workings of the mind is:  Every thing we draw attention to is seen as if through a magnifying glass. It seems to be larger. We step into a kind of trance wherein all we are able to perceive is the monetary aspect. If, however, our sole focus is money, the emotional impact will be extremely strong, we will lose sight of the line we are seeking to pursue, and we will be incapable of engaging in a good activity of trading. 
The recommendation to be given in this regard is to devote a bit of time to defining your objective before you begin to actively engage in trading, unless you have decided to throw away your money merely because you relish the emotion of playing or taking part in gambling. The person who engages in trading is a person who works, and who is enjoined by that fact to derive a net profit from his activity. 
Advice 1: Learn to understand trading. 
Trading is a profession, not a bet!
How to operate in the Markets
In order to operate effectively, it is necessary that you should have an initial strategy and some tactics, i.e. that you should know how to carry out your actions in the short term.
A good trader is pragmatic and operates on two different levels, which represent the equivalent of the two planes on which a house in built: 
1. An underlying linear level, that is, a level of “cause and effect” where the trader shall give practical effect to a well defined series of actions founded upon some objectives to attain. The trader shall clearly delineate such objectives, and then, in his endeavour to pursue them, he will especially take care not to let himself become “hypnotized” by the behaviour of the masses or by the conduct promoted by the media. He will be utilizing linear time (chronos).
2. A higher level where he will gain access to his intuitive acumen. For this level, the utilization of methodologies of self-hypnosis will prove to be highly beneficial, and in fact almost an indispensable necessity. Accessing such a higher level is premised, however, on the prerequisite of being balanced and following an orderly line in the choices one makes. What that essentially entails is the fact that the choice of practicing a trader’s activity should be based on a specific decision to attain self-fulfilment rather than on the mere advantage of working from home or earning quickly.
In the realm of actual reality, it is impossible to function purely in a linear sense, since by operating that way we would be neglecting several elements, and would fail to make use of our intuitive acumen. If there existed, in fact, an automatic way for scoring gains, it would have been converted, sooner or later, into a software which all the traders in the world would have come to possess after a short while, whereupon we would be thrown back to our initial departure point. However, it is likewise impossible to operate only on the basis of “intuitive acumen”. In order to build a sixth sense, an intuitive business acumen, it is necessary to undergo a process of accumulating a type of experience pursuant to which our unconscious mind learns to have instinctive financial “insight”. Many operations, moreover, are sufficiently logical, which means that a trading system might prove to be of great benefit to us with regard to their execution.
An underlying strategy has to be developed.
Defining one's Objectives in a positive way
Why have you decided to engage in trading? What has induced you to take that decision? Usually, the goal shared by all traders is the one of earning a lot, quickly and by avoiding the need to strive too hard. It is a normal occurrence for this class of persons, however, that they never achieve what they would like to see realized. 
Let us analyse those parts of such linguistic utterance which stand in need of correction.
“Earning without making a hard effort” is a negative definition. We are essentially escaping from something  (fatigue), rather than willing something positively. We have to define what we want in order for us to be successful, not what we do not want.
“Earning a lot” is, instead, an expression marred by the fact that it is “indeterminate” in nature. When our mind hears the word “a lot”, it has no knowledge of what it means. Let us try and be more exact. What is it that, precisely, we wish to accomplish?
“Earning quickly”, too, suffers from being a phrase marked by indefinite semantic contours. Besides, the trader who sets out on the basis of that premise runs a greater risk to fall into stress than his colleagues, given that he will lean to the side of doing things “hastily”.
If the trader who thinks in that manner fails to achieve any result, we might then be tempted to feel that whoever follows a different kind of reasoning, for instance by having in mind the goal of earning the right figure, within the right time span, and with a consumption of energies which is suitably commensurate with that purpose, is more likely to accomplish his desires, especially if what is meant (even from a numerical point of view) by the word “right” is clearly etched in his mind. The main reason why most people do not achieve what they are aiming at, in fact, is the circumstance that they do not actually know what it is that they want.
The future is an unknown variable, and the only thing we can know for sure is whatever has taken place until the current moment. History teaches us a wealth of different things, and all that has occurred in the markets up to the present day can be analyzed by us in such a way that we might discern, at the root of those events, the existence of underlying conditions which statistically granted us a chance to score gains. 
One gets an abundance of persons who engage in trading and wish never to experience failure in any one of their operations; the market, instead, has its own rules and drives on in terms of its own rules. We are, therefore, the component who is required to adapt to it. 
It is difficult, for a person who engages in trading, to set for himself a goal which is disconnected from money. 
Advice 2: Stay detached from money but not from being “where money is”
A most important element for a person who resolves on doing trading is to remain detached from money and not to think of monetary benefits when he carries out every single operation. This is one of the keys to maintain as much self-detachment as possible. It allows us to focus on other things more, and in that manner, emotionalism will be precluded from playing some nasty tricks to us. 
Defining a goal plays as important a role in life as it does in trading. It is only through the determination of a goal that we might become able to build around us whatever is needed to bring about its materialization. Our mind, indeed, is the mind of the primitive man, and only gets into action for the sake of fulfilling immediate needs. If we want our mind to do more, we are duty-bound to say that to it explicitly. We are entitled to think that our mind, in order for it to accomplish some specific matter,   must be programmed and that there is a servomechanism which regulates the totality of unconscious thoughts so as to convoy us to the accomplishment of what we want. 
Advice 3: Define the objective you aim to achieve within some kind of time context 
A good method one can adopt for the sake of defining his objective within some kind of time context consists in resorting to the time line, which I suggest you should use, i.e. a system whereby you demarcate your objectives within a specific time sequence.
In the absence of a guiding objective, the mind of each one of us is naturally inclined to roam around in several diverse directions. As stated earlier, in order to trade successfully one needs to have a goal, a goal enabling him to act beyond the fettering chain of need.
In physics, as we know, the optimal state of a body is the state of rest, whereas, in the field of electricity, the discharge of a capacitor brings the agitation of the body itself to an end. To an extent, and to an extent only, human physics, too, is equated to that: If I am hungry, the optimal condition is the cessation of hunger’s urges; if I am in a state of sexual plenitude, it is represented by the cessation of genital stimuli, and so on. It is however imperative to adequately bear in mind that, in this context, gratification does not come to an end at the very moment in which equilibrium is reached. Human energy has such a propelling force that the bullet transcends the target almost in every instance. Thus, whenever a person devoid of a goal succeeds in making a gain, he will desire to earn more.
This excessive pursuit is the cause of all our misfortunes. We are not unhappy because of the fact we fulfil our desires, but due the point that, as we fulfil them, we cross over the point of static equilibrium. Man wants to feel enjoyment, as if he was the legendary inveterate drunkard who at first used to drink in order for him to quench his thirst, and then ended up doing so merely out of the pleasure he came to draw from the act of drinking. What is the generative element of this self-destructive urge, undifferentiated from the way we have already come across in the course of the first chapter of this book? It depends on that faculty which is both friendly and inimical to us, on that single human faculty which goes to great lengths in complicating the problem of happiness that animals solve by the mere act of living: It depends, in other words, on Fantasy.
Fantasy predates need, and oftentimes even creates it in the first place.
Put it differently, we imagine ourselves to be in need of something long before we actually develop such need; we imagine to have a larger need than our real need, or else we are the ones who concoct a fictitious need. All our efforts would in that case be directed at the fulfilment of such a need. Since, however, the motivational impulse was out of proportion, we would always tend to trespass the limit. This is what having an objective is of benefit to us for: It serves the purpose of defining a limit and avoiding the possibility of surrendering to a need.
The needs we have in life, as well as those we are subjected to in the world of trading, might render us  vulnerable, inasmuch as we become dependent upon something. Being in need of earning, of money, of predicting the direction the market is going to take, of closing each and every deal with a gain, of perceiving ourselves to be exceptionally good every time one carries out a successful operation …
All these needs might prove to be destructive! 
In trading, what matters is not to be in the right in every situation. Sooner or later, in fact, mistakes might be committed, and yet all of that should help teach us the purpose for which we have resolved on working in the financial markets, along with teaching us the lesson that one can learn from his errors. 
We can notice that, paradoxically, the road to financial wellbeing does not wind its way through having an absolute focus on money itself. A bicycle rider who restricted his whole attention solely to the act of pedalling would not be a good cyclist, and, in addition, he would soon feel tired. In order for him to win, he must also think about why he is pedalling, and where he wants to go. In the same way, money is but a means to the end of living better. The question which imposes itself on us in this context is thus the following: What is it that we truly want?
We have the tendency of placing excessive focus on money because the society in which we live teaches that the more money one owns the greater the level of happiness he might attain. We must think, on the other hand, that in the event we succeed in earning plenty of money within a short period of time, we might also be empowered thereby to change our life, whereupon we would be enabled to do many things we were precluded before from doing. 
The “ecological” objective has the benefit of defining what we want to do as soon as we have earned up to the desired level. By proceeding in that fashion, money will stop being the primary objective, and will turn into a means to fulfil something more tangible.
The frames of the self and some recommendation for effective trading 
Every man is a balance and a totality made of a multiplicity of levels. The demarcation of an objective demands a far-reaching extent of honesty at all these different levels.  It is only if we are completely coherent, in fact, that we might be capable of exploiting the full power of our mind. Otherwise, we would be “incoherent”. The logical consequence of it would then be that our emotional brain is going to hinder the logical brain, or else that our logical capacity will hinder our intuitive ability:
Physical Level: Basic foundations: Take care of your health. One of the most frequent causes of erroneous actions is a deficiency at the physical level. Creation of the Objective: Define for yourselves a specific objective which can prove to be both physically useful and pleasant in respect of your person. The mind understands sensory concepts better.
Emotional level: Basic foundations: Avoid drawing all your emotions from trading, lest you become emotionally dependent on it. One of the most frequent causes of over trading is some emotional dissatisfaction which turns into hyper-activity. In addition, take care to eliminate negative emotions. Creation of the Objective: You should furthermore avoid setting yourselves a goal which is meant to show to other people that you have talent, to merely gratify an emotion, or to comply with some other ulterior reason. Set yourselves a target purely for your own sake. 
Mental level: Basic foundations: Be honest and present to your own selves. Do not tolerantly acquiesce, not even for a single moment, in the relinquishment of such a line of action. Creation of the Objective:  Define the objective in accordance with the principles we have listed here above (It must be measurable, attainable, etc).
Spiritual level: Basic foundations: Learn to access the deepest part of your own selves. Remember also that one can be spiritual while being in a state of material affluence. Creation of the Objective: Identify your objective in such a manner that it can also accentuate your participation in globality, by further including for yourselves a mode of operating at a wider level. The largest-scale investors in the world have often undertaken actions of benefit to humanity as a whole. What is right is found at all different levels, and can also take a purely psychological form: The more you shut yourselves off from this level, the more you will simultaneously close yourselves to your intuition and inspiration as well. 
How to ensure assistance by our unconscious mind in accomplishing the objective?  
Our self moves along on the strength of habits. It keeps on reiterating acquired mechanisms. Whereas our essential inward being has goals it aims at actualizing, the reasoning which is engaged in by our external and egotistic self aims at preserving and perpetuating whatever it has firmly come to acquire, and at showing it is in the right. It might at times occur that these two elements do not go along well, and that they consequently give birth to internal conflicts. A scope lies behind any behaviour. In certain instances, our self is afraid and wishes to avoid new paths, preferring rather to maintain its comfort zones. 
Exercise – In order to understand how this concept operates in the sphere of trading, you should pause for a while to think of what you would do with your money if you had many more funds at your disposal. Engaging in such thought will help you define WHAT it is that you want, and how it harmonizes with your life in general. Write down the objectives you have defined for yourselves.
At times, our self is an obstacle to us truly earning. We might for instance be enslaved to a habit in terms of which we avoid having plenty of money and we are scared to become rich. Money viewed in isolation has no value. It only becomes endowed with value at the moment when it serves as a trampoline for us to realize clearly defined goals. What I mean to say is that monetary funds might be utilized so as to buy extremely costly cars or the company of those people who swarm around us, in order to attain selfish goals and for the like of such motives. In such a case, our unconscious might not be fully in agreement; the task our conscious is vested with, in fact, consists in safeguarding our persons and lending us protection, knowing fully well that should we be furnished with a lot of money, we might adopt an irresponsible course of conduct. It is thus important to think of and imagine a situation wherein, should we be regaled with a wider pool of monetary resources, we might make life more pleasant both for ourselves and for those who are the closest to us. Pay thoughtful heed to what are the purposes which inform your life, and firmly set for yourselves a cluster of noble aims on which you are going to found your behaviour, whereupon your unconscious will lend you assistance in attaining them. The goal which inspires you must be brimful of positive emotions, both for your own selves and for the persons who surround you. 
Exercise: The main reason why people fail to realize what they desire, and thus lose themselves behind their own emotions, consists, after the primary reason of not knowing what they want, in the fact that they lack knowledge of WHY they want what they might actually be wishing for. The biggest cause behind many people no longer having money is that they lack motives urging them to have money. Your REASON AS TO WHY you  want to have money must be stronger than any beliefs of no real use which you might happen to entertain. Your reason for the aforesaid must necessarily turn into something very important. If you lack a motivational urge to arrive at destination, you shall never reach it for sure.
Being present: Analysis of the hypnotic Distortions of reality which a trader ought to free himself from 

The true miracle is neither to fly through the air nor to walk upon water. It is, rather, to walk on the ground (Chinese proverb)
Many traders assert that they desire to accomplish their objectives and that they are going to stick to a specific line for that purpose, and yet they subsequently allow themselves to be seized by the emotion of the moment, whereupon they start behaving as if they were playing. The truth of the matter is that, in actual fact, they only play with themselves. In order to function properly, it is imperative to be present, and to be in the here and now. In the case of most traders, however, the reality is different. They act in the same manner they would do if they had they been “hypnotized”. 
A great many traders keep on mulling over events of the past, either because they fail to use their heads, or because they only utilize automatic systems. The use of an automatic system is always based on historical data. Every theory, too, must be grounded on the past.
In reality, the only way of acting in a variable market is BEING STEEPED IN REALITY. By adapting ourselves to reality and by accepting it, we shall maximize the function which likelihood discharges.
What it is, however, that takes place precisely?
Hypnosis is an alteration of attention, whereas a trance is an alteration of reality wherein your replace certain external realities. The following are the most frequent trances one encounters in trading:
1. Dissociation, i.e. losing contact with the coenesthetic aspect of reality. It essentially denotes the fact that the trader turns hyper-analytical, and accordingly stops trading. He analyses, looks at the graphs times and again, and ceases to be operational.
2. Positive hallucination, which usually coincides with what is called "transference".  This transference is directed by traders at the persons of their “gurus”. 
3. Progression into the future. In its pathological forms, it corresponds to imaginations having the effect of distancing us from reality, and applies to the trader who is not succeeding in selling because he is stuck in the thought that “he will gain when the stock eventually rises in price”.
4. Daily imaginations, the effect of which is that they freeze us as if in another dimension. This trance consists in the hypnotic dream preventing us from staying in the here and now.
5. Hypermnesia, i.e. focusing excessively on moments from the past. We might for instance remember with vivid intensity the gains we have made in the past, and this memory influences us despite the fact that the market is now different. 
6. Temporal distortion, which leads us not to be aware of time passing by, and which prevents us from successfully demarcating our objectives.
7. Hypnotic Regression and Post-hypnotic Suggestion, namely, acting in obedience of phrases and beliefs which have been learnt during childhood, such as “do not make mistakes”. The trader suffering from it would then invent reasons that might tend to explain and justify why he is losing.  
8. Sensory distortion, which is also present in several  compulsive habits such as “compulsive trading”. In it, we distort attention to reality by replacing it with attention to our own excitement. 
9. Amnesia, meaning that one leaves aside or wipes out elements from his past and, in the field of trading specifically, not to keep track of one's losses. That gives rise to compulsive trading, one in which the subject drives on until the total squandering of his capital. 
Even though the concepts we have set out here above are relevant to other dimensions of life as well, we are going in this context to examine some of these points in greater detail from the visual angle of trading specifically.
The hypnotic role played by “Expectations”
Expectations play a most important role in respect of whoever takes the decision to work in the financial markets. If a market is starting an upward swing, if it is, in other words, at the initial stage of a bearish trend, the reason why that is so is the fact a larger number  of people are buying in the expectation that prices might rise further, in order for them to sell their assets later at a monetary premium. We should always bear in mind that markets represent the sum-total of a myriad of different individual psyches.
How do we build expectations, however? People's expectations are grounded on their personal convictions and experiences. The latter, in term, depend on the manner in which we elaborate information that reaches us from without through such sensory faculties as sight, hearing, and coenesthesia (bodily sensations); we also use taste and smell, but only to a lesser extent
In other words, we do not perceive the world directly. What we actually perceive is our own imagine of the world, which is an image that varies from person to person. Every individual, in fact, constructs his own reality on the basis of which type of experiences he has had in life. We apply, to those experiences that are classified through the senses and the system of representation, a whole assortment of assumptions, generalizations, deformations, and obliterations. All these essentially consist in ways by which reality is narrowed down. They are state of trances we are unaware of. 
It is therefore possible, for every single person, to perceive the reality of financial markets in different ways, by creating his own subjective convictions on the strength of which he is going to adopt lines of conduct eventually leading him to specific expectations.
Advice 4: Be always ready to concede the fact you might actually be in the wrong
"Hypnotic Dreams”
The issue is that, if expectations are built upon something which is far removed from reality, we shall encounter plentiful difficulties and inconveniences before we can reach a state of satisfaction. A great many people step into that state which might be referred to as "hypnotic dream". Technically, this state, which is unfortunately come across frequently among traders, is definable as one in which the trader is essentially screened from perceiving reality, and all that he witnesses is his dream to have an intimate connection with reality. He then lives in a non-sensory reality, one which is rather made up of memories, projections and mental associations. He might say, for example, “this particular share is bound to experience a price increase”, and meanwhile he begins an otiose wait for that expectation to be proven true. As he is caught in that situation, the reality shaped up by his imagination superimposes itself on the actual reality. If we want to achieve results, however, we must be in the present and in the now 113. 
The “projection into the future”
A trader does project things into the future whenever he constructs, for his own benefit, a fantasy by which he manages to metabolize a loss by accepting it. In the field of traditional hypnosis, temporal progression (or temporal pseudo-orientation) might be regarded as a variant of the “hypnotic dream”. It is further linked to entertaining a certain belief: “It is a foregone conclusion that I will earn well”, as well as: “It is actually easy to earn, all one has to do is to hang in there firmly”. In this temporal progression, the trader’s mind discerns an imaginary future, on the basis of which he interprets the present. The person who is immersed in a continuous "temporal progression" speaks by making use of the future tense: "The market shall bring about”, “I shall be", etc. Usually, this behaviour ensures that even if a trader with a “projection” of growth of a particular stock “in the future”, when in fact the ruling price of such stock actually decreases, is granted the chance of a way out of such calamitous projection, he remains rooted in it, due to the fact he is convinced that, at some imaginary future, he will score a gain. He is accordingly inclined to trespass the limits he had set for himself at the start. This conduct allures him into a postponement of the losses, the significance of which then increasingly grows in magnitude. Trading is a system in which one sometimes gains and at other times loses. If you are unwilling to accept this simple truth, you will be swept away by the losses you will incur. As stated by Alexander Elder: “A winner accepts his losses. A loser defers them”.
The words by which some traders engage in negative self-hypnosis  
Another important factor is that even the language we use might contribute to our negative “self-hypnosis. Words, in fact, exercise an influence over our beings, and they, too, represent hypnotic elements which we unconsciously apply on our own selves. For example, “difficulties” are only so because we call them that way. We can observe what happens when we begin to replace the word difficulty with such words as "circumstance" or "fact". “Difficulties” might be understood as no more than normal “situations” which are met along the path, and along the ordinary way in which one’s activity unfolds itself. As such, they are often capable of being solved by resorting to the logical type of reasoning we are perfectly able to carry out so long as we remain present.
Another word which a trader uses so as to negatively hypnotize himself is the noun “investment”. When a certain stock does not yield gains, and yet the trader has a obstinately firm conviction that it is going to rise in value, he then calls it “an investment”. 
What should be done when, through our behaviour, we are unable to attain the goal we had initially set for ourselves?
Whenever our conduct is incapable of achieving a demarcated intermediate objective, a difference is established between imagined reality and perceived reality, whereupon discomfiting hardships materialize. It might for instance occur that, on account of a far-reaching economic crisis, our capital has been substantially eaten into. In this case, the inconveniences which emerge cannot be overcome by recourse to logic or the conscious mind. They might rather require the use of different premises from those we have employed so far. 
How is it, however, that these expectations concerning which we feel discomfort are born? The answer to the question is: They are born out of experience. Let us assume that a particular trader has set up his own reality regarding the financial markets, and is going to erect his subjective convictions upon the supporting foundations of such a reality. This trader will then begin to construct for himself a set of expectations about his trading activity. That phenomenon, indeed, will be even more pronounced in respect of any separate purchase and sale transaction. He will accordingly seek to actualize his objectives through his own mode of conduct, with a view to reaching a state of fulfilling satisfaction. During this process which he has opted to go through, both hardships and sources of gratification will never fail to materialize.  
We have come across this phenomenon on plentiful occasions: Our trader, in the past, has undertaken operations which have accrued to his benefit. Taking such previous experiences as his foundational departure point, he then re-enacts those very same operations, save that this time they prove a failure. He turns stubborn, and keeps on repeating them time and again, saying to himself in the process: “No doubt that stock is going to bounce back”. He looks over the Internet for articles which articulate the prediction of a U-turn inversion in the prevailing trend. Yet no such inversion factually takes place. Why is it that this person spends his money in this fashion, as opposed to resolving on changing strategy?
The question we ought to pose to ourselves as regards the preceding illustration is this: "How can we know that the future is identical to the past?”. A good trader is equipped with a turning key, namely: Knowing that he does not know. Even though we might think we have a perfect working knowledge of a particular market, we should still grant us the suitable benefit of “knowing not to know”.  Whoever thinks “he knows”, conversely, is actually  “generalizing” and making speculative conjectures about the future having the ability to fully reproduce the past. What is even worse, however, is the scenario where generalizations transmogrify into “hallucinations” properly so-called.
Traders’ hallucinations
In the technical lexicon of hypnosis, the term "hallucination" is used to define an image which corresponds to something that is physically not there (the hypnotist, for example, says there is a chair where no such object is present, and yet the subject “sees” it); an illusion is in turn describable as a "modification of reality" (the subject, to give an illustration, sees a chair and thinks it is a bicycle, whereupon he climbs on it and begins to pedal). A generalization is nearly a species of  "hallucination/illusion". What essentially occurs, as far as  trading is concerned, is that we alter reality so as to bring it in greater line with our thought, to make it resemble to a greater extent a previous experience we went through to before. Sometimes, nothing is worse, in an effort to construct a hallucination, than the scenario where the underlying impulse of it is a prior achievement of success which had made us very proud.  The mechanism is in essence the following: We engage in something whereby we achieve success; we then repeat it, once more successfully. We then infer that we will always experience success.
If, as we engage in trading, we manage to obtain some gratifications through the pursuit of a certain line of conduct (and that especially during the early stages of that activity), such as carrying out operations which prove to be winners and fetch us good sums of money, we will in fact build a generalization to the effect that such behaviour will always and invariably occasion a satisfactory outcome. As soon, however, as the first inconveniences manifest, problems begin to arise. 
The truth is in fact that the earlier experiences caused us to feel pride, they have given us an ennobling sense of accomplishment, and yet, now, the selfsame conduct fails to work for us. It is extremely hard for the human mind to formulate the admission that “I am in the wrong”, especially if he has involved in the process such emotions are self-pride and dignity.
When that fails to occur, we are unwilling to acknowledge the fact that the operation as carried out is mistaken and that it is turning against our expectations. Yet the reality is that, in the financial markets, it often happens that the same conduct sometimes leads to satisfaction (gains) while at other times it occasions hardships (losses). People do not like to accept discomfort, because they always want to be right. Accordingly, they cannot welcome error by accepting it. If hardships keep on manifesting, at an escalating level (= losing money further), such individuals will insist unperturbed in using the same modus operandi, in fact to an even greater extent (= they will increase the risk), and they will think: “That stock, no doubt, is ripe to bounce back, it has by now reached the bottom of its value, and cannot just precipitate further (or soar to even greater heights, as the case may be)”. They are going to read newspaper articles, in the process making a special effort to search for those written analyses which are in harmony with their unshakeable convictions. They will inquiringly scout around for information from other people in the hope of finding a larger pool of persons who share their views, since at the end it is "their" reality that matters, not the objective reality of the market. 
Advice 5: Enlarge your vision
Think rationally in terms of opportunities rather than in a sequential manner. In order to exit the illusion/hallucination and avoid all of this, it is necessary  to expand one's own experience of the markets and hone those behavioural skills of ours which are suitably capable of leading us to the accomplishment of the intended objective. There is no single way of making gains in the market. A cornucopia of diverse methods exists to that effect. Accordingly, the wider the range of choices which are available to us, the greater will be the efficacy by which decisions might be taken. Begin to reason in terms of OPPORTUNITIES. The real trader is the one who inquires about things, gathers information, grabs opportunities and scores a gain, not the one who obdurately sticks to one line only and lies even to his own self, because he desires things to unfold themselves in accordance with his subjective wishes.
Traders’ Post-Hypnotic Suggestions
Another context in which hypnotic forms of conditioning are important is the field of commands which have been received during one's childhood. For example, many people, when they were children, have assimilated the following suggestion: "The more you do, the more you are going to have". In trading, however, matters do not work that way. It happens at times that when one does too much, he fails to score gains, or, as one Italian proverb puts it, “too much is crippling”.  In the field of hypnosis, “post-hypnotic suggestion” is the term used to define the state where a person keeps on obeying a particular injunction even when the stimulus is no longer present. 
After the hypnosis has been carried out, for instance, the subject is told that he will not be able to get up from the chair, and the subject does not in fact succeed in rising from it. In the same fashion, in the arena of trading we must come out of the post-hypnotic suggestions which reach us from our childhood, such as "DO!". This suggestion exposes one to the risk of being pushed into the phenomenon of “overtrading". What essentially happens here is that the subject does too much and ... loses.
Advice 6: Be your own selves
If you come to realize the presence of such type of problems, try and free yourselves from them (the self-hypnosis which is set out later in this book might prove to be an excellent method for that purpose).
The post-hypnotic suggestion of self-sabotaging 
An even greater danger is posed by post-hypnotic  suggestions of self-sabotaging. What we define by the use of such term is a series of negative beliefs which have been absorbed from the environment, and which prevent the trader from a gainful pursuit of his activity, due to the fact they generate a number of “confusions” concerning the targeted goal, whereupon the goal ultimately suffers the fate that it is no longer practically pursued.
An essential pronouncement you should use as a departure point is to assert the fact that you create your own life, whereas one who is not an achiever will say: “Life just forces itself on me”. The causative agents of self-sabotaging consist in expressions and ways of thinking you have heard from your parents, such as “it is hard to succeed”. Another possibility is that they have passed onto you the thought to the effect that “you do not deserve”, etc.
A textbook example one can refer to in this connection is provided by some Rock singers who thought about themselves that they “did not deserve”. When they began to taste success, they started a process of self-destruction caused by consumption of alcohol and drugs. The way they had been programmed mentally was so strong that, given that the external environment did not destroy them, they elected to destroy themselves. That is the identical scenario applying to some traders who, when they are faring well in their activity, begin to embark on increasingly more risky operations, until they eventually cause their own destruction. In essence, their drama is that when success draws near their persons, they lose sight of their aim.
A characteristic feature of this trance consists, moreover,  in a chain of “because”, the effect of which is to make it hard to break the trance in its initial stages, insofar as the  trader finds external justifications for his failures. The logical mind is in fact characterized by the tendency to work on the basis of inferences, i.e. deductively, as a result of which it is inclined to justify somehow certain beliefs which have instead been simply assimilated from one's parents or from the environment generally.  In the same manner, when a manager suffering from gastritis experiences an irritating sensation in his stomach, he might get angry with his secretary and deal with her harshly, without even realizing that the cause of his ill-being is purely physical and cannot be solved by losing his temper with such subordinate and engaging in his consequential censurable treatment of her person.  
What fundamentally happens is that, around, say, the result of “being unable to succeed”, you have built a series of "because", such as “because the others know secrets I am not acquainted with”, whereby you justify the negative operations you have actually undertaken. Other illustrations would be your statement “I lack a sufficient amount of money; had I owned more, I would have bounced up again”, or “I must succeed in finding one particular formula”, etc. 
If you desire to exit this trance, you must take on responsibilities: Consciously or unconsciously, you remain, at all times, the one who is responsible for your own life. Stop complaining or ascribing to other people the causes of your own mistakes. Do not think of what  ought to be, but rather of what is in that precise moment. Put a plan into practice, along with whatever is required in order to accomplish the hoped for result, and then refrain from halting with your thought on anything else. Whoever complains will suffer failure. If you do not do as instructed, you will inevitably risk casting yourself into the role of a usual victim: The victim blames – everyone is guilty of something. By pursuing that attitudinal avenue, the relevant person exempts himself from any responsibility, and eventually reaches the point where he unconsciously says: “My objective is not so important and easy to attain, as it does not truly depend on me; it is therefore important to simply devote myself to live my emotions”. Of, course such a person runs into failure by taking that route.  What is needed in order to come out of this trance is not to trace any possible failure to the lack of available capital or bad luck, which is but an element you cannot affect by your personal intervention, but rather to trace it to your own selves. It is only then that you might begin a process of self-transformation.
You have to delineate your goal in a very clear way, and then, in the event that you taste success, you must continue to act as if nothing had happened, without abandoning yourself, precisely at that stage, to more hazardous initiatives based on your trust in “good luck” or in your belief of “having hit upon the right formula”, since any such more thoughtlessly bold steps would eventually convoy you to the risk of failure.
“Dissociation” in traders	
In the field of psychology, the dissociated person is the one who takes excessive shelter in analytical reasoning as a means for him to live out life. By doing so, he fails to live. This state is often the consequence of events which are emotionally charged. Some traders which have suffered setbacks might adopt this attitude of dissociation by using analogy, and thus run away from their trading activity. These individuals are afraid of trading and take shelter in reasoning. They turn hyper-analytical and know everything about how to do doing things properly, save that they do not jump into action. They essentially disengage themselves from reality, and step into an abstract world of thinking. They live as if they were attached to the study department of a large bank. Keep in mind, however, that in this field money reaches you from what you do, and not from what you think! 
The traders’ sensory distortions
Many traders do not want to admit that they are deploying an ineffective strategy. They thus mentally distort the existing situation. In this case, the first step to being cured is to become conscious of where we are. The best method for solving this type of “distortion” of reality is to keep a graph of one’s own progress (or regression). By comparing it with the actual graph of the market, in fact, we might develop useful ideas and understand ourselves better.
The five most common emotional reactions

In the markets, emotional reactions on the part of the single operators might add up to each other so as to give birth to fully-fledged “waves”. An expert trader knows how to decipher and ride these waves. As for a trader lacking presence to his own self, he might end up being swept away and sucked up by them. 
The most common emotional reactions which might debar a trader from attaining his goals are five in number:
FEAR: Fear lowers one’s propensity to take risks, and it especially has the effect of "closing up" the mind. Every thing we focus upon is enlarged by our focus. When you experience fear, therefore, you must gather your mind on the business risk and mentally exaggerate its probable negative consequences. In addition, the emotion of fear causes us to engage in reasoning processes which, in the short term, are exclusively linear; it has therefore the tendency of inhibiting "lateral thinking", which is of higher calibre. As trading is an issue of OPPORTUNITIES, and opportunities are normally the fruit harvested by lateral thinking, a natural corollary of the aforesaid is that we lose out on the best opportunities. That has sometimes the effect of occasioning the conclusion of sales at unsuitable times, those times where we know with near-mathematical certainty that a market is going to "bounce back". Fear additionally narrows the temporal horizon.  In such instances, the average trader ends up focusing his attention on an extremely circumscribed time horizon. 
ADVICE AIMED AT OVERCOMING FEAR: Breathe, and carry out the exercise centred on the discharges. Try thereafter to lower the threshold of fear by directing your concentration beyond it, to your objective, thereby enlarging your perception of time.
ANXIETY: It is the underlying cause of overtrading and stress. In order for you to transcend it, you should act in the same way as you do when tackling the emotion of fear, inasmuch as it derives from a problem of temporal horizon. We are anxious because we are no longer able to discern our objective, being restricted to the capacity of perceiving only the immediately next moment.
Regularly practice a technique of self-hypnosis, by visualizing your true objective at the precise time when it needs to be attained.
CUPIDITY: Cupidity is the causative agent of inappropriate PURCHASES. Here is an advice: Having some objectives is also useful to the purpose of fixing a "threshold of satisfaction", and not to allow ourselves to be seized by such emotion.
Each one of you should always ask his self: What is my objective?
WANTING TO PROVE OURSELVES RIGHT: Keep always in mind the fact that the market is, invariably, the only one to be right. If you want to show yourselves to be in the right, you will eventually reach the point where you will always strive to justify your actions. The world, in the end analysis, is vast, and that means you will always come across some other person who thinks the way you do. This is not, however, the best way of earning. It is, rather, a way of purely consoling yourselves.
Be present to your own selves. Draw attention to your own body and remove it from what lies outside your beings.
EXCITEMENT: Remember that you are not buying and selling for the sake of experiencing emotions. You are only buying or selling in order to make gains. Whoever seeks out the experiencing of emotions through trading will undoubtedly find them, but it is very unlikely that he will find money as well.
Practice breathing through your abdomen.
Improving the Trader’s presence 
Along with the exercises set out here above, there is benefit to be additionally found in simple exercises which are intended to improve our self-presencing and reduce the charge with which emotions are loaded. Emotions consist in physical reactions which occur in our bodies, and should be “demystified”. What we should in essence do is to learn emotions as they are, and then let go of them. Do not ever engage in trading if your realize that you are in a state which is conditioned by emotions; at that moment, in fact, you will only enjoy the use of one minor part of your mind, with the result that the chances of making errors get multiplied. By letting go of them at the moment in which we learn to feel them as "sensations", rather than as "emotions", we would be taking the first step towards releasing them. For example, a person who seeks out excitement in trading might draw attention to the issue of where and how he feels this sensation. Do not try and verbalize it. Do no more than feeling it. Feel the entire body, and let excitement flow away.
When it comes to the emotions which are linked to fear, it might instead be of benefit to direct attention to our whole body, to feel the weight of the body, to feel our breathing. At that juncture, we would have recovered a point of reference. The more you practice the discipline of feeling the emotions as mere sensations, the more you might become rational and capable of avoiding the risk of being "hypnotized" by the market.
Trading and Personal Health
Few people think of sedentary activities as being dangerous, and yet the trader who is actively engaged in his activity and seeks to solve the emotions which have been alluded to here above, is exposed to psychosomatic risk. That is in fact so as every emotional reaction  corresponds to a particular biochemical reaction. Every emotional reaction, if it is kept for too long, tends to develop into a chronic form and thus reduce our capacity to have energy.
Energy is, simply put, the capacity to operate. Our essential need is to spend and recover energy.
Self-hypnosis for the Trader
Some people think of hypnosis as being a state of lack of consciousness. The truth, however, is that hypnosis is a  moment of intense receptivity, one in which the conscious processes of rational thinking are temporarily relaxed, and consciousness is far more present. This high receptivity is often linked to the presence of alpha waves. These waves are connected to the possibility of creating new associations and devising new mental maps.
It is additionally possible, within the process of self-hypnosis, to learn new patterns of behaviour, and also, for whoever is prey to stress-related reactions, to develop self-control.
Some people have compared the subconscious mind to a servomechanism which, after we have consciously learnt a certain experience, makes it its own, thereby enabling us to subsequently re-enact that experience more rapidly, and, especially, without even thinking about it.
We have consciously mastered the way of driving a car, but now, whenever we are busy driving the different operations connected with it have become for us automatic motions to be made. That ensures we are no longer forced to focus our thought on them, and we are accordingly free to talk while driving.
In the selfsame manner, we have learnt plentiful other ways of being related to the outside world, and we do not consciously inquire as to what we do; sometimes, our  "automatic conduct" might be right, whereas on other occasions it might be wrong. Still, there are frequent times and situations where we act automatically.
Through self-hypnosis we are capable of sewing a new being for ourselves; we might additionally come to learn how to release stress and anxiety, and simultaneously give effect to our natural capacity for self-improvement.  
There is yet another reason urging the trader to make use of self-hypnosis. Markets represent quantum systems in many different respects. In other words, they are not capable of being analyzed or described in terms of a purely linear model founded upon data which are present in the system, due to the convergence of individual psychologies belonging to multiple single operators which is generated.
The unconscious mind, too, is a quantum system. It follows that, if we succeed in “becoming related” to the market, we will attain the capacity to develop intuitions and, through them, results which would otherwise not be attainable.  
How to employ self-hypnosis 
Unlike social hypnosis, which comes to us from the outside, self-hypnosis is carried out by the subject himself, and represents an essential key to the attainment of mental control.
Mental control must also be linked to a creative process. The direction which personal improvement takes, as far as the trader is concerned, is always a creative direction, that is, a direction of accessing our own resources:  It is absolutely necessary, therefore, to ensure that every effort is aimed at creativity, as opposed to a mere spirit of competitiveness vis-à-vis the external environment.
The truth is in fact that forcing ourselves to move along a direction of mere competition with the world (as with the person who says, ‘I want to fare better than my colleague X!’) has only the effect of letting us employ the resources which are already available in a different manner, without taking us, however, to the point where we might create novel resources. Given that the process of utilizing resources which are already there is essentially rational and conscious, that process distances us from the possibility of finding a successful outlet for our subconscious resources: Though we might no doubt manage to achieve temporary results, we simultaneously risk focusing upon erroneous directions, thereby laying waste to several possibilities.
An additional point is that every confrontation should essentially take place with our own selves, if we really desire improvement to yield to us the fruit of genuine satisfaction; if we do not derive satisfaction from our acting, any instance of acting is useless, since full satisfaction can only be drawn from acting only when it consists in a form of expression of our own being. Therefore, in order to carry out a self-hypnosis targeting a specific result, an essential prerequisite is for us to define our guiding objectives.
The first objective must always be the one of being in harmony with our own selves: All the other objectives are like tributaries branching off from this central one.
Objectives of self-hypnosis with regard to the trader
The objectives which a trader might secure through the use of self-hypnosis might be summed up under the following four categories:
Self-hypnosis aimed at reducing stress and a better psycho-physical balance: In a market which provides us with incessant stimulations, a state of mental and physical balance plays a fundamental role. It is an established fact that 10 to 15 minutes of relaxation might greatly increase one's efficiency level. In this particular field, we will lend preference to the bodily methodologies aimed at achieving relaxation.
Self-hypnosis aimed at attaining specific behavioural objectives: In a global world, only the steadiest and the strongest drive forward. An Italian trader might have to face competition from a Japanese or a South African counterpart. It follows that we are called upon to nurture the qualities of mental clarity and  stability to the best of our potential. Accomplishment of that aim is aided by short visualizations, which have the capacity of being suitable to that end.
Self-hypnosis aimed at entrenching our   objectives: In this respect, we might resort to self-hypnosis both so as to make objectives in our mind and so as to entrench them better.
Self-hypnosis aimed at developing intuition: In this case, we would utilize self-hypnosis for the purpose of accessing our inward resources and developing our sixth sense.
Additional Suggestions concerning Strategies and Tactics 
The Time factor
Every our assessment regarding trading takes place within a temporal space. However, the “trances” which envelop our beings usually prevent us from having a clear idea of the time factor, and accordingly cause us to “discern” market trends which in reality are not there.
Finally, apart from enlarging the time perspective and creating realistic sequences of mutually related connections, we must also have knowledge of what we should be doing.
First of all, in order to help our mind function well, it would be an excellent thing to create for ourselves different types of strategies which are tailor-made for every separate directionality of the market (lateral, bullish, and bearish). 
It is only possible to test the effectiveness of our strategies through the medium of a “back testing”, which is going to span at least 5 to 10 years of market activity. The strategies must then be applied across different time frames (5 to 15 minutes, 1 hour, a day, a week, a month); that is essential to the purpose of establishing the right timing to enter the market.
It would be appropriate to have the opportunity of simultaneously watching on a screen a graphic relating to, respectively, one hour, a single day, a week and a full month. That will be of assistance to us in determining the right time to get into the market. Let us for instance use, as an illustrating example, the swing trading method, which is also defined as the double minimum or doubled maximum method.  If the market is bearish, and my swings are negative throughout the “time frames”, I might end up “short” (= enter a downward position) with every pullback. What happens, however, if not all the swings are turned downward? In that instance, I would necessarily have to decide what represents the most important move for that moment, in order for me to then march onto the stage of making operational choices which are consequential thereon.
Quantum Coaching for developing financial intuition

Intuition is a superior mechanism. It represents our capacity of interpreting a reality which in itself is something chaotic. We are obliged to grasp the essence of the process of intuition.
Intuition is utterly different from an automatic mechanism. 
The automatic mode is the way machines, too, function, as with the classical trading systems based on a software program.
In actual fact, however, the world is governed by chance. In the world of finance or in the realm of economics, every assertion which is capable of being expressed through paradigms of cause and effect can only possess validity at the level of probabilities 114. In the field of human behaviour, and thus in the market, one will always come across expressions which are traced to the fact that such an operational arena encompasses factors that are independent and not susceptible of being repeated. The financial markets are in the last analysis a form of human expression, and it is thus unthinkable that today the identical events which took place yesterday shall be re-enacted.
If, therefore, we apply deterministic, i.e. excessively sequential theories, in the arena of finance, we will reach a stalemate sooner or later, or even worse, we will plunge into a loss.
There is another fact, however, which is likewise undeniable, namely: No human mind is capable of logically analysing the entire multiplicity of market variables in a sufficiently short time as to enable it to take a decision.
In spite if that, there are traders who earn REALLY A LOT on a constant basis. The other people say of them that “they are endowed with an intuitive acumen". 
In order to develop such intuitive acumen, we need to understand that our mind has two ways in which it functions:
1. A linear way
2. A second mode of functioning, which might be called "intuitive", or alternatively "quantistic". 
If we succeed in making the mind work in accordance with the said second mode, we might then be able to naturally reproduce the mental mechanism which governs superior achievers.
Opening oneself up to intuition
A prerequisite to financial intuition manifesting is a state of mental opening; it is in fact important that we should surmount the negative emotions, as they would otherwise pile upon our inner sensations, thereby screening the latter from our view. It is important that we should be  “larger” than problems and situations. What matters is never the dimension of the problem. What matters is your own mental dimension. If you perceive a problem as huge is only because you are small. Or as it is also put: “If every thing seems to you to be blue, you should change your pair of glasses”115.  It is only at such point that we might open ourselves up to something more, to what represents a plus.
Intuition as a physiological phenomenon
The concept of intuition is innately connected with the human being, and it is often so profound that it might even be watched from the outside, in non-verbal communication.  
It has in fact been proved that, at the time of getting a  “stroke of genius”, that flash of brilliance might further be accompanied by access to different rhythms on the part of the brain waves, one capable of being measured by appropriate equipment. We might make mention in this regard of the researches quoted by Prof. Jeffrey Schwartz.
Prof. Schwartz has conducted a series of researches with a view to understanding what happens to the human mind when in its processes of discovery it unveils new maps. One of the conclusions reached by that research was that, at that moment when new solutions were identified (the so-called  “Eureka!” moment), at the instant, that is, when the mind opens up, it was possible to witness the development of gamma-type brain waves which coincided with the fact that many neuronal areas were then working in synchrony. It is as if the neurons functioned all together, thereby multiplying the single power.
How intuition can be developed
Modern analysis says it is possible to learn how to develop intuition. That depends on building what has been termed an "informed instinct" 116.
What it fundamentally means is that we do not rely on the most primitive instinct, which is the instinct of the inexperienced person. We rely on a higher level of functioning of the brain, one which does not take place in a wild fashion, but rather as a result of a specific process of development that is basically related to the experience one has accumulated.
This experience is then processed in a special manner by our unconscious mind.
Famous experts make use of this process. The financier  George Soros recounts for instance the fact that, when the time for selling sets in, he perceives a "specific sensation" along the back, whereupon he comes to know that that is the best time for acting.
Soros' experience in the field is vast. This large quantity of accumulated experience has enabled him to act in terms of very subtle “distinctions”, which allow the unconscious mind to function in an “informed manner”.
Let us examine now the two essential aspects of the  intuitive process.
In order for the mind to be able to reason and give expression to its results, it is in fact necessary that it should be able to work out distinctions which are built through experience.
It is somewhat similar to the scenario where, in order to make some order in our house, we opted to make use of a series of differently coloured boxes instead of indiscriminately throwing all items into one single box.
Many traders do not make suitable distinctions, and lack knowledge on how to train their mind to develop such process.
If we were to use quantum terms, we would refer to "observables". An "observable" is, in essence, the defining of a possible result. The definition of observables is of fundamental importance to the task of avoiding the danger of thought drifting away unchecked, in the same way that, if we do not have boxes where we might place objects, we would be disabled from "ordering" reality.
The ideal would be for all the boxes to be filled in a balanced manner, so as to eschew the situation where some of them remained empty while others were filled beyond capacity.
The totality of observables is defined in quantum terms as making up a "quantum register". We might imagine a large notebook containing a great many pages. We are pleased with the fact that all the pages are all equally filled with writing. In an identical way, a balanced register enables the mind to function better. Which are, then, the essential elements a trader ought to work on?
The first three fundamental elements which a trader should start building, and which represent three "observable" elements, are the following:
Bullish Direction 
Bearish Direction   
Lateral Direction
These same principles might be easily generalized and thus extended to every situation. If I want to set up a  trading system enabling me to trade in a bullish market, my mind is in fact compelled to think in terms of a bullish trend. The visual angle of bullish people is accordingly orientated in favour of promptly detecting certain signals of the system which differ from those characterizing a bearish market. We must start learning the art of creating a trading system for all three main directions of the market. In that manner, we will also learn to reason things out on the strength of a different mentality and different viewpoints.
It is only when I have managed to secure for myself a   good trading system for every type of direction that I can grasp, through experience matured over time, the signals which rise to view with regard to each separate type of strategy.
All these elements are first organized at a conscious level, whereafter they become unconscious.
This learning process is often described as follows: In order to attain this level, four passages should be identified in a trader’s career:
1. At first, the trader is “unconsciously incompetent”. What that entails, in essence, is the state possessed by the starter: The “inexperienced trader”. He lacks consciousness of the fact that he might better his trading ability, and in fact does not even view that as possible. What is even worse is when such starter possibly even sees himself as a good trader, allows himself to become inebriated by the successes he scores, and in so doing limits his critical capacity and eventually loses sizeable amounts of money.
2. At a later stage, the trader becomes “consciously incompetent”, in the sense that he is now alert to the fact that he must raise his level of knowledge and competence to an adequate level. This is a phase marked by acquiring awareness, one in which the trader is inclined to lean blindly on friends’ advices and let himself be “hypnotized” by the recommendations dished out by trading  gurus. At this stage of his career, he also a-critically trusts automatic systems of trading.
3. If, however, the trader begins to analyze the market, study the different situations, and reason with his own head, he might then move to a “consciously competent” level, with all that the conscious mind, when it functions, is at times slow and ineffective. A purely rational approach shall always prove insufficient. We still have to start operating on the basis of “intuitive acumen”. Nevertheless, this kind of trader is beginning to “stay afloat”. He learns to examine the market better, and makes proper use of graphs. His  system of trading, even before it is captured in some software, is already found in his mind. Such a trader has attained a level empowering him to shift to the next phase.
4. The next phase consists in the first steps by which the ability to be “unconsciously competent” develops. This does not of course exempt us from the duty to analyze the various situations (phase 3). The said ability represents in fact an addition to what the trader has already actualized in the preceding phase. The added element is represented by intuitive acumen. This is the moment in which we are capable of earning, since we are the ones who can create for our own benefit our personal, tailor-made “trading system”. We are now operating in an unconscious manner and well.
It is indeed when we become unconscious that our mind starts acquiring a special degree of efficiency.
At this point, an important aspect, if we desire our unconscious mind to function properly, is to always bear in mind the duty to place ourselves in a position of “not knowing”, i.e. a position whereby we refrain from falling prey to such expectations as "the market is bound to ...". 
We often observe that the same page of a financial newspaper includes, side-by-side, two different articles devoted to technical analysis, one of which uses a strategy or puts forward a viewpoint that is being advanced by those who see the market long (bullish), and the other typical of those who see it short (bearish).
Traders are in the habit of employing such verbalizations as: “The market is due for a rise; it must first ensure; it must continue to; sooner or later it will have to; it just cannot go on like this, etc”.
This happens when one establishes a connection with the market which is grounded on one point of view only, whereupon, on the strength of his subjective beliefs and convictions, he communicate with other people, and often even with his own self, by making use of the abovementioned vocabulary. 
The point of the matter is that the more we have the chance of gathering a variety of data and points of view (which would essentially mean we have managed to build a well-developed quantum register, one going even further than the three points we have referred to earlier), the greater will be our predisposition to snatch those intuitions enabling us to attain our goal. 
This is indeed an essential element behind the potential success of self-hypnosis.
Through hypnosis, in fact, we might notify our mind of what we would like to attain, without however informing it of the method through which we shall accomplish that. This latter ability will be provided to us by our unconscious mind.
This is this type of intuitions that will allow us to obtain the best results, as it denotes moving beyond our rational thinking and efficiently resorting to the power of our unconscious mind. 
When a trader fails in his intent, he tends to look up to other people for the solution to his problems, and scouts around for pre-packed trading methods and systems which are deemed infallible, and which are often advertised on the Internet as guaranteeing inflated percentages of return on one’s investment. 
It is the case in the world of trading, as is indeed the case with life, that the solution, instead of being outside, is actually found inside our selves. 
A person who decides to turn trading into his main activity must first and foremost understand that the biggest investment he should make is to invest on his own self. 
No one is able to tell you what you should do from an operational point of view. You are the one who needs to find a personalized operational way by leaning on the resources which are available to you. Every day, when you rise, what exists is you, you with your own purpose and goal: This is what matters! It is the capacity of the mind to utilize resources in a functional manner which serves your purpose (objective) by leading you to make the right  decision.
Summary of the Stages of the process aimed at "creating intuitive acumen":
1. Gathering a wealth of information from varied sources, and organizing it in multiple directions
2. Knowing how to change your own state of  attention
3. Having a clear idea of what we require
SOME RULES AIMED AT ACCUMULATING EFFECTIVE EXPERIENCE CAPABLE OF FUNCTIONING AS AN UNDERPINNING PROP OF  INTUITION
The information we gather must in fact meet a very exact  criterion, namely:
The elements must be kept DISTINCT. What this essentially signify is that the trader ought to be able to analyze and distinguish between the different plans of action, and to see and feel them as distinct "processes”. Technically, there must be at least a situation wherein each of these elements might be separately identified in a certain manner.
Other experiences are used as "attracting forces" for the sake of interpreting the experience and unleashing specific reactions. 
These experiences serve as reference for the de-coherence which might occur. 
This is the first step in the process of creating an "informed instinct". An analogous concept has been recently articulated by Malcolm Gladwell, the author of  "Tipping Point", a last generation best-seller on marketing. These are his words: "I give praises to the informed instinctive judgment, not to the uninformed instinct ".
At the start of his career, a manager must rely instead on the experts in management theory, precisely like the trader has to lean on the advices of the more experienced traders and on available trading systems. 
In order to score a goal in this world, we should base ourselves on our instinct, exactly as it is done by football champions. 
In his last book "Blink", Gladwell puts forward the view that the best choices are those which are made in the "blink of an eye". 
The blink manager is a person who has witnessed many things and who has learnt a lot, to the point where he has educated his unconscious to follow his instinct. 
A good analogy is the one that might be drawn with football: A successful player does not consciously think of the decisions he needs to take in order to put the ball at the back of the net. He scoops from years of experience which have empowered him to hone his skills of judgment, until his judgment has become exceptionally sophisticated: The final outcome of that is scoring a goal.  
Seen from the trader’s point of view, he needs to have faith in his instinct, which is something that might represent an advantage, provided it springs out of experience. 
In quantum terms, this ensures us that the "quantum register is filled out thoroughly".
Essentially, what we are stating is that it is possible to  optimize the process by which "intuitive acumen" might be created in a person. We might, in other words, optimize our capacity to respond. In that case, it suits us to gather all the possible information about a particular subject, and to subsequently allow our intuitive elaboration to be set in motion.
In this instance, too, an important role is played by “knowing not to know”.
One of the main enemies of intuition is "to want things to proceed along a specific direction". We must in other words avoid the trap of our hopes possibly interfering with the process we have just described here above.
In trading we can thus apply the so-called "dynamics of intuition”: Collecting information – phase of unconscious elaboration - gathering solutions – putting them into practice or critically refuting them.
Elements of Quantum Coaching which are essential in order to develop opportunities
Openness to intuition 
In the light of the fact that our mind is naturally created so as to interface with a random world, the good functioning of the mind is the key which enables us to reach the optimal result. Reasoning in terms of  opportunities, therefore, also means to open oneself up to intuition, which is that function of our mind with the capacity of tracing for us new roads for the future. This accordingly bears the meaning of being more openly receptive to synchronicity, inasmuch as our unconscious mind is more apt for the purpose of seizing opportunities, when it is viewed comparatively with the unconscious mind.
Openness to the world 
The method we are offering you through our coaching is essentially one that causes you not to take certain paths for granted or to decide under the negative influence of our memories or emotions.
Our memories do in fact form a closed system which cannot know more than what it already contains. An opportunity-based system, by contrast, necessitates a continuous curiosity to explore the world, without letting ourselves be guided by objectives which are too closed. In order to accomplish all of that, the whole spectrum of human talents will have to be nurtured, as the more we are integral the more we might be able to discover. The  process must lead to an openness to the world which is also an openness to others, given that many possibilities, incapable of being numerically quantified, pass through the fields of such approach. 
Ours being a time which is linked by information technology more and more, it is founded on the motto “Thinking globally acting locally”.
A method based on opportunities requires one to think  globally. In order to attain that goal, it is important for us to maximize COMMUNICATION, with a view to thereby harvesting the widest possible spectrum of information which is needed for an overall perception of reality.
Past experiences one has lived: How the techniques might be of help 
This is a true story. It is the story of Fabrizio Maccini, who collaborated with us in editing “hypnotic trading”. It might likewise be your own story, and by reading it you will expose yourselves to some useful subliminal suggestions. The way we evolve is due to the assistance lent by our unconscious mind, and there are times when an illustrating example, or a metaphor, might stimulate us. 
It is indeed “curious” how a person might succeed in attaining his aims; one’s itineraries, events and existential experiences might be of the most disparate type, and yet, provided we pay attention, they might take us to the destination we would truly like to aim for. 
In the case of a 19 year old youngster who did not have a clear perception of his life objective or purpose as yet, he would sometimes find it useful to listen “attentively” to advices being voiced.
In order to make him more accountable, his father told him to start taking care of his personal savings. 
Has it ever happened to you to find yourselves in some novel situation?
A world like that of the banks: It was for him a wholly  uncharted territory. With a lot of commitment and the study of some books on finance, he began to master the rudiments of how to go about in that field of life.
One day, he took the resolution to start doing some  trading in selected shares, by investing a small sum of money in them. The said decision was reached during a summer holiday by the sea, after a chat he had with a friend of his. The image of his friend who successfully managed his personal savings while he was comfortably seated by the sea shore facing a financial newspaper got etched in his mind. He was still blissfully unaware of which one might be for him the “right” way of satisfactorily working in that field. He asked himself: “What can I do so as to earn money while trading in the financial markets?”
His mind began to set itself on an active mode, while the experiences he managed to accumulate took him to an increasingly higher level of knowledge. 
The tools which might be used in the market are an ocean, but they all share the feature that they are created for us. Each person accordingly finds the instrument which works best for him. In order to know which one it is, of course, you have to be able to buy them. That was the beginning of an experiential journey which alternated satisfactions and failures, until, all of a sudden, he realized that he was going nowhere and that he was possibly escaping from something. He knew what he did not want, fine, but he did not really know where he wanted to go. Experiences are of no benefit alone unless you use them as resources towards the purposes you have set for yourselves. 
After he had spent a long time in front of a computer monitor, he became aware of the fact that he had moods and sensations which kept on changing depending on the position he held in the market, on the decisions which had been taken, and on those which demanded to be taken.  
What is the use of all the studies of technical analysis and all the market tools if, ultimately, the decisions are conditional on one's varying moods and as such dictated by them? 
Could an automatic trading system be the solution?
In this case, too, the question arose: “What can I possibly do to learn how to build a trading system and use it in an automatic fashion when operating in the market?”
It sounds like a utopia, and yet a method of building one such system truly exists. It does last for a short while, though. The truth is that, had an automatic system capable of always reaping gains, regardless of the direction taken by the market, truly existed, sooner or later every trader would start using it.
The bottom line is that systems work for a period only, after which they cease to work. 
Following a period of time he had devoted to trading systems, the young trader addressed to his self the following question: “What is it that I truly desire to achieve?”
A person who engages in trading does so in order to earn money, but the youngster understood that money in life was merely a resource; it might indeed happen that some people own a lot of money, and yet they do not have other resources, whereupon, so long as they manage to go through life by making use of their sole resource, everything seems to be turning out well; but as soon as the resource called “money” is of no benefit in making them reach what they desire, they might then own all the money in this world without it proving to be of any use to them whatsoever. 
The youngster understood that, after such a long time he had spent studying and building up experience, the time had come to make use of all of that for the sake of accomplishing his purposes. 
After he had read plentiful books, he felt that theory alone was not enough  for him, and that, in order to gain access to a higher level of learning, it was incumbent on him to practice it out. 
He thus learnt to hypnotize himself. As soon he mastered the application of self-hypnosis to his subjective purposes, results began to materialize ever more frequently.
The most important thing for that youth is that he now realizes that his life consists in moving towards what he truly wants to accomplish.
Purpose and Summary of our Method of Magnetic Success
Our method is founded on four successive phases:
1. Achieving control over our own selves as well as our vital force. Eliminating those useless and dispersive activities which originate, not in our clear choice, but rather in the ghosts of our subconscious, in vacuous desires, and in the predilection for basking in convenient situations. Doing this will simultaneously occasion the development of an increasingly greater personal magnetism.
2. Understanding our specific ideal/objective, and arranging our acting, which is going to be expressed over two simultaneous times: a) A programmed time (chronos), in which actions succeed one another logically in conformity with their necessity, urgency and importance; and b) the time of the now (kairòs), where we have to be present to the opportunities which open up in front of us.
3. Exercising an automatic control over what we are busy doing, so as to be able to correct ourselves on our own. Carrying out indispensable actions in a conscious manner and with the least possible consumption of superior mental energy, in such a way as to devote time to a higher goal or to the pursuit of our pleasures.
4. Perfecting the system until one reaches the point  of “letting things happen”, i.e. of deriving the most one can from the universe.
5. Lastly, we have pointed out some additional  “tactics” which are suitable for interpersonal relationships, contractual transactions, the financial markets, and the development of intuition generally.
This method is the art of mentally discovering the straight line, which represents the shortest distance separating desire from result. There can only be a single straight line to get to a point: All the other lines are indeed longer. 
Divisions of the work
1) Part One: Attaining self-control
It is important to know how we can achieve control over our own selves. Many activities that we undertake are simply useless, when they are not in fact actually counterproductive. They are the actions which result in a dispersion of that energy that might be otherwise used in a more profitable way. The first step, therefore, consists in attaining consciousness over what we do. Every action that we carry out represents in fact the utilization of some  part of our vital force. We must learn how to focus that energy.
In order for us to do this, we must be capable of getting to the centre of our own selves. Thereafter, having located our centre, we should then move to the demarcation of all the rest, for us to set out once more on our journey. 
In the first part, therefore, we will highlight the means which can gradually lead us to gather energy in such a manner as to avoid undertaking any dispersive act, as well as not to utter any useless word or articulate any useless thought. However “negative” it might be, this part of the method is equipped with such a degree of importance that — if it is applied well — it might be sufficient to reform the mentality of nearly all of us.

focusing the mental side – assuming control over the emotional side
Simplifying thought
The means that are devised in order to accomplish that purpose are of two classes. The first kind gathers the general variety of means, those relating to the way life as a whole is carried out. Through their help, we might simplify our acts, our thoughts, and, accordingly, our own existence.
The second class applies to specific rules which have been studied under the first type, and teaches how to save the physical and nervous energy we shall require whenever the time to act comes.
Having thus cleared the ground on which we wish to erect our building of any obstructing element which might cause us to slip, it is now a case of getting down to work. It is, in other words, a case of defining in advance, through a series of plans, the ambit of our positive activity. For us to do that, we shall resort to our intuition.

Accessing one’s own intuition
2) Part Two: Understanding time, and being in possession of mental clarity
It should be noted that this system links predetermination to free human choice. The two elements, in fact, are not mutually exclusive but rather synergic. Predetermination can be seen as the art of readying the conditions by which a desired mental state becomes possible. We engage in our creative work within a space in which we channel mental energies towards a purpose without needing to think about tomorrow. Focusing one’s energies is the first foundational layer for the process of creating things within reality. At that moment, by gathering energies in the now, opportunities might arise, which you will be equally capable of seizing provided you have attentively practice the method. Said differently, you will live in two times simultaneously: A projected time (chronos) and a real time (kairòs).


Understanding time and its two dimensions: planning and opportunities

The plan itself must be borne out of our most intimate essential being. As it happens to every architect, our plan  — meaning our life plan — is already in us, as a living kernel, even before we have decided to jot it down on paper. 
Precisely for that reason, it never consists in a "cut and paste” plan. Fixed and immutable recipes cannot work. Each one of us has a set of aspirations differing from those of his neighbour, as well as a different life: It is precisely such aspirations, such predilections, which form the guidelines of our LIFE PLAN. 
This plan shall be studied and refined through the help of the FRAMES OF THE SELF which analyze the dimensions of our being.
LIFE PLAN
Frames of the SELF:
Health
Success
Relations
Culture
Etc.
These frames of the self are nothing other than a thread, as complete as it can possibly be, which is bound to act as a vehicle for us to understand our ideas, affections and actions. They intersect along with the totality of life, and enable us to inject variety and harmony into our existence. They are like different colours which jointly contribute to create a unique image.
Having an ideal direction
If we are unaware of where to go, how can we possibly reach that point? Those who fail are the persons who do not know how to will. They lack some dominant ideal, one capable, in other words, of acting as a fulcrum for their actions. What therefore happens in their regard is a dispersion of energies: Most of such energies are dissipated in habit-driven actions, and devoured by emotions which are often unwanted. The good news, however, is that, at any given moment, we are able to take the decision of taking charge of the rudder of our ship, and that it is frequently less exhausting to steer it that way than to leaving it anchored by the harbour. Once we have elected to take that wise route, we would then have the capacity to head naturally for our ideal direction. One's ideal might be discovered through practicing our method. Though this is something which is present in every person, we might only unravel it and lay it bare by establishing a connection with our own selves.  It is indeed possible to assert that the one who has lived happily is he who has been able to work all his life on the accomplishment of his specific ideal, without suffering either material or moral lapses along the way.

Discovering our own ideals by establishing connection with our own self

Without seeking to delve into the moral sphere, being a sphere where we do not wish to set foot in the least, we can notice that exercising a higher human faculty, namely, will, is fundamentally nothing other than the ability to set limits on one’s own action and coordinate one’s acts towards it. 
WILL
=
SETTING AIMS WHICH ARE COORDINATED WITH ONE’S OWN ACTION
Disciplining one’s will carries the meaning of giving rise to new, well arranged masses of mental representations, being systems of ideational functions capable of turning into autonomous centres of interest and activity. 
Coordinating one’s will
=
Substituting intended mental representations for the impulsive type thereof


Will = Coordinating one’s ideas
Educating one’s will does not bear any other connotation than training ourselves on how to gradually replace impulsive and dispersive actions with the ideo-determined type which are harmoniously in line with the Universe.
Opportunities
Having a plan, therefore, is paradoxically of helpful assistance to the effort of being in the now, and being in time as opposed to see it passing by. Opportunities can only be discovered by being anchored in the NOW. The purpose behind the formulation of a plan is to know what we have to do today, without any need to think about tomorrow. The plan will accordingly be all the more valid if it enables us to focus on the present day 117. It is only in this way that we might fully exploit the power of the mind, have the chance of discovering the opportunities provided by life, and enjoy them to their fullest. 
How to make use of the life plan
The life plan can only be a direction enabling us to get to where we would like to go. It might happen that one is forced or eager to change it, wholly or partly. It might even happen that one formulates it in a specific way because his life is now drawing to its end, or because it is compelled by circumstances to convert into something immutable, due for instance to the fact that one's young age makes the future inscrutable or the individual concerned lacks the confidence which is required to apply the method in a total way. 
When that is the case, the life plan might be provisionally shelved aside, and one's prediction might be limited to developing an ideal for a shorter time span, say, an annual or monthly ideal or even a mere weekly one.
On the strength of all or some of these plans which are mutually interrelated, we might, every evening, set about the task of laying down the plan for the next day, or an estimate of our future activity.
For us to draft it, we will be called upon, as a first step, to review the elements which we would like to work on, and to analyze ourselves from every possible visual angle, both as  isolated individuals and as part and parcel of a social plurality and of the Universe as a whole. In that fashion, we shall pay regard, in succession, to the physical self, the intellectual self, the economic self, the moral self, the family self and the social self.
From this, which we might call the personal inventory, we will progressively draw certain annotations which, once they have been gathered in a single whole and rigorously arranged in a coordinated fashion, will form, along with other supporting elements, the plan for the following day. It shall be put down in a sheet devoted to that purpose, so as to ease the immediate survey of whatever has been done.
Characteristics of the plan
Efficient thought is also a simple thought. In order for the plan to be realized successfully, it will accordingly have to be: 
Simple, 
logical,
organic
Simple, meaning it should not be luxuriantly over-elaborate, unable to be put into practice due to an excessive abundance of ingredients; logical, in the sense that it should be spread around its constituent elements in such a manner that actions will logically follow in sequence, through interrelated steps which are reciprocally dependent on each other for their execution; organic, that is, linked to the larger weekly, monthly and annual plans, and representing, therefore, an integral part of the life plan as well.
Once we have established what has to be done, the question naturally arises as to how it ought to be carried out, in other words, an inquiry into what would prove to be the best way of giving practical effect to what we have bound ourselves to conclusively accomplish.
To that end, we might have recourse to a large assortment of stratagems aimed at drastically reducing the straining efforts associated with willing and acting.
3) Part Three: The use of presentification and “multiplication”
This stage calls upon us to address the issue of acting. The true way of acting efficiently, however, is regaled with one quality: It happens effortlessly. It is the consciousness of the action which gives birth to the efficient action, rather than the quantity of energy that is spent in the process. Since, moreover, the body executes what the mind truly wills, one method which is of benefit to the aim of facilitating the implementation of the plan as a whole is thus presentification, being a superior form of concentration, and one which is closely linked to self-hypnosis, of which it represents its preparatory stage. Presentification might in turn be “multiplied” as far as its effects are concerned, and made more extensively “ours” through the use of the “technique of light”.
Attaining control over one’s own personality
We must be the masters in charge of our personality if we want to act efficiently. Many people surrender control of the steering wheel to their egotistic selves, for them to be piloted by such external selves, whereas in fact we can take control over what we are and turn ourselves into the persons we are eager to become. A useful role might be played to that end by  instantaneous mono-ideation and by the mental substitution of personality, in its capacity as an additional hypnotic form which requires no magical practices to be applied, only a dose of perseverance. The ultimate aim of the method is the pure and focused action. We do not have to take the action into ourselves: We need to take it into reality, where instead of an “I do” we might come upon a “doing”. Acting should not be dependent on our personal impressions and emotions. We have to develop presence to the action, as it is through such presence that we might be able to “watch ourselves acting”, and our actions, solidly interconnected as links of one and the same chain, might then be in need of nothing other than the initial impulse for them to be undertaken while in a kind of state where they simply “happen to be carried out”.

“Seeing oneself act”, without undesired interferences from either the mental or the emotional sides 
4) Part Four: Becoming a Magnet

Being a magnet
The universe offers us every thing we need. It is up to us to grab it. Whatever we have highlighted here above is a means to us becoming a “magnet” and being “magnetic” vis-à-vis events and persons. An open-minded attitude is obviously an indispensable prerequisite. We are the creators of our own reality. As such, we have to create a  reality in which success is possible. In addition, useful contributions in this regard might be made by some techniques which assist and facilitate the “quantum realization” of the events. Techniques, that is, which ensure that things might “take place” in our life.

Placing oneself in the position of becoming the like of a “magnet” vis-à-vis external events
5) Part Five – Specific tactics
The fifth part of our method is devoted to tactics. The Presence and magnetism you can develop through recourse to this method might also represent daily tools at your disposal. They might be applied to sales and interpersonal relationships, to trading and financial markets, or to the Internet.
What we are presenting consists, therefore, in a method and in a discipline. Through its support, one can succeed both in ridding life of all the clogging hindrances occasioned by worry, and consequently clearing up the way for any kind of spiritual activity, and in balancing forces in such a way as to extract from them the maximum result they could possibly yield.
We equally base ourselves on the more specifically cerebral faculties and the forces of the unconscious, that wonderful region in which the larger part of our spiritual riches are located, as if they represented a virginal mine yet to be explored.
This unconscious, from which only the most shallow layers belonging to the realm of the conscious emerge into view, reveals itself with greater clarity in dreams. Who is the one who – while dreaming – has not authored verses or composed musical tunes, delivered verbal addresses or solved problems, or formulated projects endowed with far greater power than the normal capacities he displayed while awake? Yet all of that sprang out of your own beings, it was located inside you, as something embedded in your senses and in your brain. You potentially are, therefore, far more intelligent than what you assume yourselves to be.
What are we then going to do? We will enlist the unconscious' help to the conscious, and we will ensure that the unconscious, too, can serve us and be part of a wider reality of consciousness and awareness. We will see to it that the dream might turn into reality.
Key points
PREPARATION
Acquiring consciousness of our own selves and our actions  
Reining in the dispersion of the mental and the emotional dimensions
Exercises aimed at augmenting one’s energy 
Nurturing originality (technique of the light)
Reaching a state of centralization of one’s self 
Nurturing one’s own energy and physical vitality
LIFE PLAN
Identifying the underlying “Ideas” of one’s own self and its relationship with the universe
Defining the “ideals” which one should aspire to in the life plan as they apply to the various frameworks of the self: Relationships, success, etc
Verifying our own conscious awareness of these ideals and ideas by resorting to such techniques as the “inner code” (yes/no ideomotor responses)
Moving to the stage of practical ideation: “Dreaming up the means”, that is, a feasible path which might enable the attainment of one’s ideal
Extrapolating from this itinerary the annual, monthly, weekly and daily plans 
Giving birth to alternative imaginations (in other words, what we would do if obstacles interposed themselves or in the event that everything unfolded itself in an optimal way) 
Defining in a clear manner the aspects of the daily plan Engaging in periodical review of the plans and in retrospective analysis 
ACTION
Utilizing the instruments of the “instantaneous mono-ideation” and “observing one’s own action”, along with all the other recommendations (mirror, etc)
BECOMING A MAGNET
Carrying out the techniques (light, Indian self-hypnosis, and so on) in order to change one’s behaviour and assist the universe’s task in allowing us to attain our goal 
Glossary
Accumulation of reality: A series of events which head in the same direction
Chronos: Time in its planned, programmed sense, as such opposed to “kairòs”, which is the time for seizing opportunities
Neuric or nervous force: Our energy potential, which is essential for us to act 
Kairòs: The time that is punctuated by opportunities we must be able to seize in our life; it stands in contraposition to chronos, which is the time of planning
Ideal: What we wish to achieve 
Ideation: The act of conceiving an idea in the mind or linking it to time 
Self or ego: Our individual self which consists in fixed habits and patterns of behaviour, and which is connected to its own “comfort zone”
Mono-ideation: The capacity to bring our mind to the point where is conceives one thing only, and to focus on such a thing so as to attain it 
Multiplication: A mental operation whereby what we fix in our minds is made to relate to our whole being and to become “multiplied” as strength. It might also be defined as “making use of the mind’s quantum power”
Presentification: Causing a mental image to be the present to the mind as if it was tangibly there. Such act might be equated to living the future beforehand
Presence to the action: A specific state in which we “see ourselves acting”, and in which we are plunged in direct perception free from any conceptualization
Pre-visualization: A fixed image which is conceived with a view to the action (whereby such image is subsequently given concrete effect to)
Inward essence: The opposite of the self, in the sense of our deeper individualized being  
Synchronicity: A coincidence which helps us driving forward  
Synchronicities: Significant coincidences, which are often capable of lending us inspiration to understand the reality around us and our own orientations 
Totipotency: It is the primal feature of the reality around us, where everything is simultaneously possible and we are the ones able to exteriorize any such potentiality 
Comfort zone: The space within which we operate, and within the confines of which our self forces us to move on an ongoing basis 
Index
Preface	3
INTRODUCTION	6
The desire to Live	7
FIRST POINT – Self-control and freeing the basic energy	11
SECOND POINT – Directing energy towards time	13
THIRD POINT – Acting Spontaneously	14
FOURTH POINT – Guiding the Universe to Assist us	14
Summary	14
A)	The four levels	15
B)	Connection with our essential being, and understanding the direction of the Universe	16
C)	Consciousness of time and being present to oneself	18
D) 	Vital energy	19
E) 	Geniality and Originality	23
The foundations of true success	27
The aim/ideal	27
Finding the good Set-up	30
Summary	39
PART ONE – Acquiring Control over one’s Own Life and developing Personal Magnetism	41
Avoiding dispersions	43
The Intended Goal	50
Developing one’s creative potential	51
Key elements to which attention should be drawn	56
Concentration	68
Developing geniality, originality and mental power	75
Available methods to interrupt thoughts	82
Being Present - The relativity of everything	89
Exercises based on the Reference Point	92
The disappearance of one’s limiting inner dialogue	94
Overcoming the encumbrance of one’s own ego	100
We are free	102
Acting on the emotions	105
Preoccupation	106
Anger	110
Haste and Anxieties	115
Concerning emotions in general	116
Controlling Emotions and personal Magnetism	117
Some additional minor stratagems	119
Exercises aimed at improving physical efficiency and self- control	121
Summary of the Phases relating to the part about “acquiring control over one’s own life”	129
Factors impacting on personal magnetism	129
Part Two – UNDERSTANDING TIME AND SELF-ORIENTATION	130
Life is but a single day	131
Understanding our direction	131
The achievers	134
Understanding the initial impulse	134
Developing powerful ideals	138
Practical ideation	143
How to build a sequence of phases efficiently	144
Man’s two times	144
Characteristic features of man’s two times	145
Temporal sequences – The time of the self and the time of becoming	150
Predicting alternative possibilities	156
Discovering opportunities	159
Knots are meant to be loosened	160
Developing more than one path	161
Freeing time from its shackles	162
How to practically build one’s plan: From today to the future	164
The paradigm shift	166
Different ideals for each person, Objectives and the life plan	168
The minor plans	172
The constituent elements of the life plan	174
How to coordinate the different frames of the self	174
Health and Vitality	176
The frame of the Successful self	180
Development of soul and spirit	183
The arenas of feelings and interpersonal relationships	185
Relationships with other people	185
Putting every thing together	187
Commitment and pleasure	189
Secondary plans and subordinate plans	193
Strategy, tactics and intuition	194
The daily plan: Its constituent elements.	195
Planning so as to live in the now	196
How to Program things daily	198
Practical formulation of the daily plan	201
Useful questions relating to the Formulation of the Plans	204
Managing energy in the course of the day	207
Part Three – How to Achieve results	214
Presentification and Multiplication	214
First passage: Presentification	216
Second passage: The mental multiplication of the idea	219
Substitution of personality	220
Acting	224
Instantaneous mono-ideation	227
Knowing how to watch oneself acting	231
Extending the help which the unconscious provides	236
Recapitulation: Aids to action	240
Part Four – Being a Magnet attracting situations and opportunities	242
Painting up the canvas	245
Method 1 – Light	249
Method 2 – Self-magnetism	250
Preparatory phase	250
The materialization of desire	252
General Preparation and Method	253
Acquiring the mantra and the written symbol	255
Assimilation in the body	257
Subsequent phase	258
Darkness and Magnetization	258
Activating your connection with the infinite	260
Method 3 – Indian Self-hypnosis	265
Scheme of Indian Self-hypnosis	265
Method 4: Becoming Creators of our own Reality	267
Part Five – Specific tactics	275
Business, Relationships and Sales: MAGNETIC TACTICS	276
Fascination as a tool of Persuading	277
Use of the look	282
Sustaining attention	289
Leading through listening	293
The greeting	295
Conclusive remarks	296
Selling and negotiating on the strength of fascination	298
Presence, and Keys to the attainment of Personal Power	302
The essential underlying concept	303
What we mean by “presence in the action”	303
The concept of “Coherence Field”	308
The coherence field	310
Varieties of Coherence Field	310
The creation of a Power-related Coherence Field and the concept of time	311
Phases of the action required in order to interact with a coherence field	311
Coaching and effective communication by using people’s role-related “trances”	313
Additional Notes on the processes of  Fascination	320
How to improve our operations in the Financial Markets by having recourse  to the Tactics of Presencing	323
The Trader	327
Five Essential Qualities which a Trader should possess	331
How to operate in the Markets	334
Defining one's Objectives in a positive way	335
Being present: Analysis of the hypnotic Distortions of reality which a trader ought to free himself from	343
The five most common emotional reactions	358
Trading and Personal Health	361
Additional Suggestions concerning Strategies and Tactics	364
Quantum Coaching for developing financial intuition	366
Elements of Quantum Coaching which are essential in order to develop opportunities	377
Past experiences one has lived: How the techniques might be of help	379
Purpose and Summary of our Method of Magnetic Success	383
Divisions of the work	384
1) Part One: Attaining self-control	384
2) Part Two: Understanding time, and being in possession of mental clarity	386
3) Part Three: The use of presentification and “multiplication”	392
4) Part Four: Becoming a Magnet	393
5) Part Five – Specific tactics	394
Key points	396
Glossary	398
Index	400
How to Contact us	405


How to Contact us 

If you want to contact us, you might call us at the following number:
0039-348-2213449
Alternatively, you might visit our website www.neurolinguistic.com
(general coaching)
and
www.mesmerismus.info
(specifically devoted to magnetism) 
Our school offers all the different available types of  training







