Dr. Marco Paret


Developing your Fascinative Force
More Health and Well-Being 



ISBN13  978-0-935410-28-0
© 2011 – NLP International Ltd



Preface
“Can we not see that a stronger force is exercised by the human eyes which, through a mere look, almost bring about life or death, cause blood to flow away and come back, wrest away strength and restitute it, and, even more remarkably, corrupt the judgment of human minds?”
(Sonnet by Lorenzo de’ Medici, known as “Il Magnifico” 1)
Who would not like to prove attractive and to fascinate? 
To «fascinate» bears the connotation of “producing a spellbinding effect or enchanting through one’s look or speech”.
The present book is devoted to the power of the eye and the secrets which are correlated to it.
By means of this organ, in fact, astonishing results can be achieved. The influence exercised by man over another member of the species is no doubt the product of a multiplicity of causes, yet no one of those underlying causes is comparable, in terms of its potency, to the one possessed by the look. Our thought, too, is influenced by the look. The very phrase “vision of the world” is traceable back precisely to that reality. After all, even in the most mundane aspects of human life, we are accustomed to judge on the basis of the outward appearance. We create a certain opinion of one person firstly on the basis of his physiognomy and, secondly, on the basis of what dress he is wearing. For sure, speech helps fashion ideas and beliefs, but what happens when such action is not validated by one’s look? When one listens to a person without seeing him, the content of what he is saying is only understood by creating some mental images, imaginary mental images. Words gain in potency when they are backed up by the look. 
A proficient orator deliberately trains the way he looks at the audience in order to lend greater force and persuasive efficacy to his verbalizations. 
In the course of this book, we shall discover how such a force is susceptible of being developed by recourse to a self-disciplining method. Indeed, already when we limit ourselves to looking around without any specific purpose, even without any specific instructions, we are in fact communicating a myriad of different messages.
If, however, we develop conscious awareness of what we do, we will manage to ultimately learn how to subjugate these energies possessed by the look. Indeed, in extreme circumstances, the ability we will have gained thereby is going to extend, in the sphere of interpersonal relationships, to the power to “enchant” whoever watches us, to create “an instantaneous hypnosis”; at the same time, from the viewpoint of the receptive side of looks, we will understand and perceive many more things than those we would otherwise regard as possible.
The present work is the world’s most profoundly comprehensive text on this subject. It has its roots both in practical experience and in the attentive study of all the relevant literature we have been able to lay our hands on. We have accordingly referred, in the course of our footnotes, to hundreds of varied historical, scientific and experiential sources.
An other result, one more closely connected to everyday life, is to learn to use the power of the eye so as to develop your Presence, Status, Prestige, Charm, Self-caring, Charisma, and Leadership, up to the point that you literally become capable oh hypnotizing and magnetizing whichever person is watching you. 
Attractive charm, according to the ancient way of looking at things, is in fact “a far-reaching power that is exercised by a look over another look, one charged with such a force that whoever was subjected to it was unable to extricate his self from it, and was accordingly compelled to be fascinated by it”. 
We are able, in this context, to record an age-long uninterrupted sequence, running across centuries, of witnesses’ first-hand descriptions of how such force would materialize. This ongoing chain of consistent records spans the medieval, Roman and pre-Roman ages without exception. 
The most recondite aspects of such tradition appear to have been incessantly transmitted in Italy more than in any other part of the world, though such transmission took place within the most exclusive elites of special affiliates. 
This ancient mode of looking at things has in fact always been practiced on the basis of a direct transmission from master to disciple, without resorting to written texts, other than, at the most, some allusive documents carrying meanings which were concealed from non-adepts, and odd systems of arcane symbols. 
In order to lend efficacy to this force, it is essential for us to develop awareness of the strength inherent in our look, as well as to develop a different vision. Though this is a practically orientated tradition, in order to understand and, even more, to put this art into practice, what is indeed required is an approach to reality which opens up to different and all-encompassing dimensions. They have to differ, in other words, from the linear and limited dimension of modern man. For modern man, the eye is a mere passive organ. If we, however, desire to appropriate the power inherent in the eye, we have to actively employ it and draw close to quantistic physics, which teaches us precisely that “the observer influences the observed”.
In fascination we detect transformation, both the transformation of the one who actively inspires it and the one who is the passive recipient thereof. Fascination is additionally able to confer a scientific basis on the otherwise inexplicable thereapeutic ability possessed by several healers.
The original sources of our interest in the subject
Everything originated at first in our odd encounter with “the last of the fascinators”: Virgilio T. 2, who currently lives in a state of deliberate obscurity by the valleys of Piedmont. He appears to be the last custodian of one part of the secrets of this most ancient school. 
During a series of subsequent meetings, spread over a period in excess of twenty years, he has gradually introduced us to the strange and arcane power of the gaze, and has passed onto us increasingly more mysterious and secret exercises.  
The first one to meet him was actually a friend of mine, Max, who, having approached him in order to seek information on what hypnotism was, received a very practical reply to his inquiry. 
Virgilio T., who at that stage worked as a barber, asked those who were present at the barber’s shop whether they agreed to take part in an experiment. Once he received a positive reply to his said request, he closed the door of the shop and firmly fized his gaze on one of the customers, who had moreover assumed a somewhat defiant look. His defiant posturing only lasted for a very short period. Within a few seconds, in fact, that customer took on a livid appearance. Virgilio told him that the cigarette was bad. The customer thus addressed began to cough so much that Virgilio was forced to slap him in the face a few times in order to bring him back to his senses. 
When it came to the second customer, he did not even utter a single word to him. He fixed him closely, and this other customer’s look turned pallid and diaphanous as if it was made of wax. At that point, Virgilio carried out a facetious probative exercise: Faced with the question on what his name was, such customer answered by mentioning a woman’s name which had not even been verbally suggested (to him by Virgilio), only through the power of thought. 
Virgilio thereupon woke him up.
Moved by his curiosity, Max took to Virgilio a number of his friends, and witnessed similar events on several other occasions. 
Even I succeeded in experiencing on my own skin the power of this seemingly quiet person who, besides the ability I have just described, had also developed a special sensitivity to energies, to such an extent that he was a capable medical diviner equipped with the talent to retrieve an object concealed inside a room. 
Where does all of this originate? 
Having intuitively realized that recourse to such technique might have stretched even beyond what we had been witnesses to, and that this power might be used for the additional purpose of making people feel better, we resolved on becomingVirgilio’s students and intimate associates, to whom he could have confided his secrets. We then realized that, in order to attain such power, what is needed is a disciplined work upon one’s own self, which is also grounded on a series of techniques and exercises encompassing self-control as well as self-development and self-improvement.
Virgilio is not, however, the only exponent of such school which we owe our knowledge of the subject to. 
A contribution to the completion of this work was also made by the late Prof. Erminio from Pisa 3. He used to refer to fascination by the term of “instantaneous hypnosis”.
In spite of the fact that both Virgilio T. and Erminio from Pisa were consummate masters in this art, the former, albeit capable of producing rapid results, operates only by leaving a superficial and short-term imprint, at a time that the work carried out by the latter pushes this technique onto a different level, one that has a deep effect and succeeds in healing plentiful pathologies on an enduring basis. In so doing, it traces itself back to a long tradition of therapeutic fascination.
After all, Virgilio, fully aware as he was of his limits, made use of his brand of hypnosis, never mind how spectacular, only as a game or for theatrical effect, whereas Prof. Erminio from Pisa was accustomed to assiduously cure dozens of people on a weekly basis, within his study, as part of his regular professional activity. Most of these persons would get cured in a single session lasting ten seconds or so. Even those who were most amenable to recurrent relapses, needed no more than 2 to 3 sessions before the beneficial effects of fascination accomplished through the look embedded themselves firmly in their organisms. Prof. Erminio was a person marked by a forceful personality. In his work methodology, as was the case with the ancient people, he always strove to be in a state of balance with the universal harmony, which he used to discern as a result of his astrological studies.
It is thus from him that we have learnt how to employ this art for healing purposes. This is a technique that we are going to lay out in the second part of the book. 
Prof. Erminio, too, had been directly introduced to this discipline by an existing master: Prof. Caravelli. The latter was a masterful expert in the so-called art of “bi-location”, so much so that he could be simultaneously perceived in two different places.
That is how we have made our acquaintance with this technique, which is as ancient as it is beneficial. 
These keys had remained hidden up to now. Indeed, although, since the days of the most remote past, testimonies had been adduced of people who were able to exercise a powerful influence with the look, the true method of bringing that about had in fact always been kept secret, or at least transmitted only on condition of maintaining a high degree of confidentiality. 
Even a very committed devotee of this type of subjects such as William Atkinson, who is one of the few people to have consecrated an entire book to the subject, one that bears the title of “Mental Fascination” 4, deals with it from the outside, in the process mentioning that he had interviewed some people, while clarifying the fact that had not been personally initiated to the technique.
Likewise, Seligmann, a German ophthalmologist who authoured in this regard a monumental work comprising more than 2500 literary sources he had quoted therein, had never been let in the art from inside. Accordingly, as with many authors in the field, he offers us a puzzle without however being able to provide us with a true solution to it. 
It does not end here, however. Though we have been introduced to the technique, we can personally attest to the fact that there are still many obscure points in need of clarification, as regards the degree of potency of this hidden and extraordinary power. 
Fields of utilization of fascination
“Fascination is actualized by a lucid and subtle virtue which the heat of the heart gives birth to as one equipped with a purer blood.  This heat is emanated in the form of rays which, emitted by open eyes fixing their gaze with strong imaginative power, ultimately produce a wound in the object of their look, touch the heart, and succeed in afflicting the other person’s heart and spirit, either with love or hatred, with envy, melancholia, or some other kindred emotional force. Feeling the attraction of love is a phenomenon which takes place when two people frequently eye one another through a direct, intense look. In that case, visual rays, mutually radiating, meet one another, and light is wedded to light. It is at that point that spirits are conjoined together, and that the superior light, by indoctrinating the lower one, shimmers through the eyes, and races to penetrate into the inner spirit, the one that is rooted in the heart; it is in that fashion that an amorous conflagration is stirred into being. If, however, you do not want to fall into the spell of fascination, you must be extremely cautious, and guard your eyes specifically, as the eyes are largely the only windows of the soul when it comes to love. That is the reason behind the famous saying: “Averte, averte oculos tuos!” 5. Let this instruction suffice for now!”
[Giordano Bruno 6]. 

“Fascination” is the technical term which is used to indicate the capacity of captivating people through the eyes. The image of the Medusa which petrifies by the look is certainly the metaphorical transposition of such a reality. It is the equivalent of the action we were able to notice in Virgilio T., as he literally “turned” his subjects “into statues”.  
Though it might be deemed strange that merely through the use of the sight it is possible to freeze a person by placing him in a state of “incantation”, the action exercised by this on the brain is given greater intelligibility if we were simply to pay notice to what happens after all to simple animals when they are dazzled by light. They stop dead in their tracks, as if immobilized in a state of astonishment, no longer able to decipher the situation they find themselves in. Mosquitoes go as far as incinerating themselves, a typical feature which is exploited by people in order to spend their summer without suffering too many bites. 
A possible way of explaining the phenomenon is that a direct look produces a restriction of the attention field in respect of the recipient of it, whence the gamut of different uses of the technique as applied in daily actions of persuasion.
So long as, therefore, you keep some person under the grip of your look, you will learn that he will gain a greater capacity to perceive emotions and feelings. You will, at the same time, increasingly reduce the force of his subjective judgment and will 7.
In order for the eye to be endowed with an effective strength, however, it is necessary to educate it through a specific training, and to attain an alert cognizance of its power. You ought to train yourselves, fundamentally, on how to acquire a fixed, interested, sweetly penetrating and expressive look. Once you have succeeded in doing so, you will be able to hold the first key among those which, provided they are used correctly, are going to open for you new doors in life.
It is imperative that your vision should be simultaneously panoramic and incisive, such that it can encompass both the totality and the detailed particulars. This state occurs to many people during moments of enthusiasm. In order for you to bring it about at will, however, self-training is a mandatory duty. 
The practical benefits of that are manifold. In the field of persuasion, for instance, the eyes can produce an irresistible effect, and practical experience teaches us that such effect will be even stronger if we learn how to keep them open in a motionless state, studiously avoiding to deflect our look, albeit for a split second, away from the base of the other person’s nose, and simultaneously having a clear idea of what we desire to achieve.  
The exercises, apart from having the capacity to powerfully develop your eyes, will additionally sharpen your attention and evolve other indispensable faculties in life. 
An essential requirement is that you should learn to achieve firm power over your own selves. The first level of exercises which help develop this power properly is in fact based on mastering one’s own body and its impulses, emotions, violent desires, and the mental plane with its characteristic digressions and instability. The aim behind it is that all of the aforesaid should submit to the higher self and should transform into a positive instrument that guides our strengths and our eye in a conscious fashion, one which is not abandoned to dependence on mere instinctiveness. The ability to enchant, indeed, is not only human, yet only man is capable of steering it toward positive and delopment-bound purposes. Animals capture prey through the look as well, but only in an unconscious manner. There have always been tales of snakes gifted with special faculties to cast their charm upon their victim and thereby disable it from shunning its spires; their power reaches such an extreme degree that they cause birds to step down, draw closer, and let themselves be grabbed without being able to offer any resistance in an attempt at self-protection. A similar narration had also been reported to us by our master. The protagonists of that story consisted in a fox and some hens 8. A friend of his owned a hen house, and was astounded by the fact that some of the hens would go missing. Imagine how much did his astonishment escalate when he realized that such hens used to climb over a branch, while underneath, on the ground, a fox used to look at them and wave its head in the process.  It appears as if, on their own initiative, the hens would then throw themselves underneath, where they would be devoured by the fox. 
Fascination is also the historical basis of the classical “give me your eyes, please” of the hypnotizers of yesteryear. Though such a personage is still alive in popular perceptions, he has effectively become extinct by now, given that the techniques of hypnosis which are currently utilized on a preponderant basis are both lengthy and based on the use of words. They mostly derive from a practice strand of American origin which is disconnected from the ancient tradition 9. No one among present-day professional hypnotists, not even among the most celebrious ones, is really capable of making use of the look. Nevertheless, look might, if and when it is understood, function as a valuable aid to any hypnotic influence, due to the fact that it engenders by itself a suspension of certain critical faculties, and does so in a totally natural manner. 
Summary of the methods of utilization of the technique 
1.	In everyday life and in the sphere or relationships: The reason why a certain person makes an impact on us, and seems to us “alive”, lies in the self-confident mastery exuded by a look which seduces, attracts, enchants. Our eye can be educated in this respect and guided to the attainment of those effects. 
2.	Within the therapeutic field: Since ancient times, healing power has been attributed to the look. Both Hippocrates 10 and Dioscorides 11, as well as Theophrastus 12, forcefully maintain that healing power could be exercised through the look, gestures and specific rituals. Our own master Erminio from Pisa 13, therefore, perpetuated such tradition by causing the instant healing of pains of the muscles and the skeleton, tinnitus, and several other disorders. A theory that might provide justification for such results is the one set out here under: The mind is sometimes caught in the grips of what is usually referred to as «fixed ideas». We keep on thinking the same things, and we let ourselves be constantly chased by the phantom of old thoughts and go round and round the same set of concepts. The charming attraction of the look, therefore, smashes such deeply engrained ideas. It is as if through the means of fascination, moreover, we succeeded in “entering the other person”. Every person’s world is fenced off by a limiting boundary consisting in the narrow space of what his sight encompasses and reaches up to. Accordingly, by meeting such person’s look we simultaneously penetrate inside the interpersonal reality of our interlocutor, and we are then able to help him “from within”. Even the phase of concentration and meditation techniques that one passes through with the aim of strengthening the eye contains within itself a practical usefulness in the field of personality reinforcement.  
3.	Within the arena of personal growth: We must possess awareness of the look. The exercises that are utilized for the sake of fascination might additionally prove to be of great avail if one seeks to acquire a clearer, neater and more magnetic personality, as well as to attain greater "Presence".
4.	To induce a «hypnotic trance» in a natural way. Fascination might represent the key to develop a specific form of instant hypnosis. Besides, all hypnotic techniques are speeded up by prior recourse to the use of fascination.
Fascination in the relationship between the two sexes
Fascination is also a fundamental component of the forms which the relationship between man and woman take. What is it that, ultimately, makes a man distinguish a woman from thousands of unknown members of her sex who cross his way in the streets? Why is it that this man who, notwithstanding the fact that he has witnessed countless eyes staring at his, directs his look only to these particular eyes? It was but a flash, and yet that flash has unveiled to him an ocean of happiness and mystery. The relevant man, spellbound and enraptured, is forced to retrace his steps so as to meet again that look which has made his restless, which has unleashed into his soul a storm that is unable to subside unless he can again look out from the thresholds of this divine enigma. The reverse is likewise true: Man, with his look, captivates the woman, gazes at her, and she, in turn, lowers her gaze in order to attract him 14. 
The modern world is saturated with a plethora of social conventions, and no one can really attempt to make a loud confession of the feelings that are dearest to his heart, or give voice to the aspirations buried in his innermost being. Even though a person might wish to love and be loved, he can often do nothing other than reconciling himself to a state of wait. There is, however, a magical tool of communication, a hidden accomplice: The look, the silent lamp in one’s eyes. The eye caresses, the eye invites, the eye promises, exasperates desire and vanity, and is capable of throwing one into despair or suddenly thrusting one back to the pinnacle of human joy. Through the look, we communicate ourselves and our idiosyncractic reality. It is in our look that the person facing us discerns the truth of who we are and where we are heading for. 
Eye in the Tradition
The eye has always been at the heart of human culture, transmuted into a symbol, at the center of ritual ceremonies, and a protagonist in metaphors.
It is the most precious sensory organ in the human body: It allows us to become aware of the surrounding environment, and assists us in creating the three-dimensional perception of space. 
The eye has been perennially linked to “knowledge”, owning the world and dominating it. 
The eye is, moreover, the sensory organ that is most closely related to light, which is an element that is fundamental to life 15. The eye is an essential organ of man, both as regards his life and his distinct individuality. 
We can discern both the following in the traditions that relate to this organ:
•	An attention that is extended to each one of the two eyes, which are related to pairs of opposite principles (sun and moon, male and female, etc);
•	An attention which is focused on the point between the two eyes, seen as a central locus and as the point in which intuitive faculties might be developed.
In the practice of fascination through the look, both these elements are of significance, due to the fact that the median point between the eyes is one of the points which were traditionally used in order to observe this point itself. 

We are now going to pay notice to how we are capable of coming across these very same elements in different civilizations.
According to the ancient Egyptians, for instance, the eye of Horus might be both the right eye and the left eye. Traditionally, the right eye is linked to the sun, while the left one is connected to the moon 16.
In the East, Shiva is often depicted with three eyes: Two such eyes, which correspond to the sun and the moon, are directed towards the outside world, towards the things, which accordingly seem to exist in a state of “duality”. There is yet a third eye, centrally located, a unifying eye which faces a different dimension, one of self-consciousnes and self-intuition, which is symbolized by a spiral in the drawing set out here under.
From an anatomical point of view, we can notice how in man the location of the right eye and the left eye corresponds to the two hemispheres of the brain, and are often related to rational value (linked to the masculine principle) and emotional value (which is more feminine).
The eye in the middle or third eye, therefore, is neither masculine nor feminine.
At a physiological level, this point corresponds to the epiphysis, which is where the pineal gland regulating man’s day / night cycle, and which secretes melatonin, is situated. 
Such pineal gland has a relation with intuition.
The eye lying on the median point between sun and moon might bring to mind the importance of a higher vision and the possibility of attaining thereby a superior vision.
A concept which is shared by plentiful traditions is “the reawakening by the third eye”, which signifies an opening that gradually leads to an amplification of consciousness.
A link might be established between such phenomenology and factors which are both physiological and purely connected to percepton. 
A French researcher, Dr. Lefebure 17, used to observe the fact that this central point of the “third eye” corresponded to a certain physiological position where the normal three-dimensional vision was suspended. In theory, we could then simultaneously discern an object placed on that point from every side. Dr. Lefebure’s hypothesis was that such a suspension of the ordinary mode of perception might have a significant impact on the brain, by steering it “beyond space”. 
According to many traditions, such a third eye is also portrayed as being contained inside a triangle which functions as a symbol of fire as well. Fire is in fact the element endowed with the highest level of vibration 18. 
This link between the triangle and the eye is similarly present, in Europe, in both medieval and renaissance iconography, in terms of which the eye, often inserted within a triangle, was after all seen as an explicit image of the trinity.
We find a similar symbolism in the East, where Buddha (often called "the eye of the world") is represented in the form of a triangle known as Tiratna or threefold gem.
It is important to understand that such an intuitive center or third eye, though already quite present as perceptive centre in man, and recognized by for instance the Indians as ajna chakra, is nevertheless in a state of slumber in most cases. Being in a stage of embryonic development, it has to be fashioned through development and opening itself up in consonance with the appropriate rhythm, which varies from person to person. 
Our own interpretation is that, essentially speaking, it is as if this physiological point was “occupied”, at least physiologically, by the task of delineating a specific identity and mental constitution, engaged, that is, by the conceptualizations which engross the mind, and by the dualistic vision of the world.
It is only when this type of “mental block” is released, that intuition is able to wake up again and be harmoniously reactivated, thereby enabling a correct development of consciousness. 
In this connection, we can observe the fact the various hypnotic pratices 19 resort to the method of touching that area, due to its capacity of facilitating the task of letting go of oneself and precipitating into a state of hypnosis, as the process is in fact disturbed in that manner. 
The full reawakening on the part of the third eye is connected to a development of one’s consciousness that is achieved over a period of time, as the consequential fruit of individual effort and working on oneself. 
The more one progresses in the practice of fascination, the more one can discern a greater sensibility in that area.
Finally, as far as the level at which the eye operates is concerned, the Kabbalists are of the view that it acts on an ethereal plane, “the universally shared book, where all the instances of man’s conduct are recorded in writing, namely, the ether. In it, all the units of human behaviour are inscribed, including the look of the eyes, or whatever nice or evil is said” 20. 
It is odd that this theory antedates the more recent one of Rupert Sheldrake (1998-1999-2000) that concerns “morphic fields”, i.e. the theory of resonance fields which are not directly perceptible but which have a tendency to “thrust” forms into a particular direction 21.
In terms of an ancient Egyptian legend, the sun and the moon were the eyes of a large divinity, Hor-jerti, i.e. “Horus of the two eyes”. This pair of eyes is similarly linked to two snakes as part of a tradition reminiscent of the Indian tradition which is included in the kundalini, and in accordance with which ida and pingala are the names of the two lateral channels around the sushunna. This tradition about the two lateral parts of the body sill goes on even in the fascination school of Virgilio T., as it confers special importance on the two hemispheres.

Exercises to develop the "Fascinative Force"
Since the eye is critical to fascinate, the development of ocular’s power is important. Nevertheless, the physicality of this organ is only a part of the whole. Actually, the eye transmits our personality, and afterwards, combined with it, there are other skills to develop, including a fundamental quality called personal magnetism.
Let us examine closely an individual who possesses these qualities.
1. His appearance is harmonic. The magnetic individual is often noted at first glance. The concept is that of "personal charm". It does not matter the person is either handsome or ugly: his figure always releases a pleasant impression. His defects do not affect the view proportionally to their importance: on the contrary, what he has best is strangely striking in. In other words, you will see merits, not defects. His eyes have a brightness that gently fascinates. His voice seduces the ear. His attitude is both, sober and natural. 
2. He seems to permeate the environment of a penetrating radiation. His presence seems to generate in those who approaches an odd sensation of well-being, a real inner pleasure. With him, the spirit seems to become lighter. The exact word to describe the status is "eurhythmy". In fact, a eurhythmy infinitely sweet is conquering and subduing you, leaving to you a lasting memory. This memory, rather than fade becomes intrusive and soon you are taken by an almost craving desire to relive that ineffable fascination. When you find yourself in the company of the magnetic man, the first impression he gives to you is that he is at rest: he is not nervous, not in a state. You feel then that he has in himself a reserve force, but do not know precisely how and where he possesses it. Is not right in his eyes neither in his ways, nor in his language, nor in its actions; nevertheless it exists and seems to be a part of him. That's exactly the fact: a little of that strength that he shows, and which you are aware of, has gone from you to him without your knowledge: is now a part of him, and a few minutes before, as it may seem odd, was for a small part a part of you!
3. His word has a particular authority. What he says creeps into soul and deeply impresses it. It moves and persuades, even when he does not seem to attach any importance to what he says. With a word, a look, a smile, he destabilizes, enchants, and seduces you.
---------------------- 
Harmony is also symmetry. Indeed a good inter-hemispheric communication also appears in appearance (symmetric movements for example).


4. His will acts at a distance. Away from him, one feels prone to please him. What he wants to get troubles your thought. Even away from him, the being that he directs his intentions to, infallibly remains his. In whom he is targeting, very quickly are developing, springing up and prevailing feelings, desires, and trends he likes to suggest.
5. He has a special look. Watch his look. His eyes are dominating you even though he is not staring at you. He does not look in your eyes or in one of your two eyes, but looks exactly between the two eyes, at the root of your nose. His gaze seems to penetrate you intentionally — a sharp gaze, but does not have anything unpleasant. You feel that he is not cheeky. Note as well that he will not look at you in this way when spoken to, but waits for your communication to send his.
6. He is always courteous. He listens to you gently: is always polite, but you get the impression of an unbending will beneath the apparent calmness: you sense a power. Is the man to whom one must obey: in a word, the impression he generates in you is that of one that knows exactly what he wants and is not in a hurry because he is certain to get it. 
7. His conversation is simple. Let us analyze his conversation. Has taught you anything? Very little: what he says is not generally important to you, but gives you the impression that it is, while you listen. He makes you feel that, if he would like to, he could say much more. Therefore, he stings your curiosity, but he does not give you the impression of an attempt to mystify you. His eye is too frank, and even if you knew him since ten years, you will never discover in his conversation the clue of a trap he sets to be admired.
8. He acts according to fixed laws. This man who has achieved popularity, influence, wealth or success, he simply accepted these gifts, considering them as if they were due, as the logical result of putting into action the laws of cause and effect.
9. He is likeable. Which impression gave you this man? This: you want to know him better because you feel that he is nice, in a mysterious way you cannot define. He keeps you in his domain, and you cannot avoid his influence even after leaving him. 
10. He is using your strength. If now you want remember well the conversation you had with him, you will see — although then you did not notice — that you were the one showing your knowledge, you have been the one who tried to please: in a word, you were the one who gave. You gave he received. If he would have wanted it to be otherwise, strong of his consciousness value, he would have forced you to receive from him whatever he would have liked to give you, in terms of impulses, orders, ideas. If he wanted to, he could have made you bend as wind bends the reeds of a pond. Why is that? Because this is the Law, and he knows it, but you ignore it. Anyway, he did not want to, he simply granted himself to make a good impression, and then he left after having taken a bit of your magnetism, as the bee flies away after taking honey from a flower. 
Four requirements
Vitality: Physical and energetic well-being. The more a person is energetic the bigger its fascinative power could be
Balance: is closely related to calmness and mastery of oneself.
Concentration - to have another one’s mind concentrated you must first know to focus yours 
Self-confidence and firmness of purpose
PHYSIOLOGICAL KEYS
 Body (muscle’s tension usage)
Breathing
Light
Strengthening Mental Rhythms 
 Therefore, let us go back to practice now, and begin to analyze how to awake these man’s parts through specific exercises.
Breathing
Body oxygenation is of ultimate importance. Proper breathing is a priceless aid for those who want to cultivate Personal Magnetism. This will never be stated enough. A pure air has a certain influence over the body that one cannot achieve otherwise. There are very few people knowing how to breathe properly; and most of these, they neglect it too easily. Nature gave us lungs not to use them partly, but in their entirety. They contain hundreds of thousands of tiny cells within each of which should penetrate the air; if we use only a third of lungs breathing capacity, we won't get that half or one third of the benefits that we should obtain.
Fundamental Exercise
When to perform them
In the morning and whenever you feel the need.
Exercise 1
Place yourself fronting the open window, or in any other location as long as you have fresh and pure air; put yourself with the body erect, feet together, shoulder back and chest forward with the abdomen depressed. First exhale all the air from lungs, and then inhale slowly through nostrils, keeping your mouth shut. Inhale as much air as possible, afterwards hold your breath 


	This chapter is the transcription of a typescript given to us by Virgil
while counting slowly up to five. Then exhale the air from the mouth and after a few seconds rest, repeat the exercise. You should try to repeat it three or four times holding the breath a bit longer every time. After three or four mornings, this exercise can be omitted, instead perform the following.
Exercise 2
Put yourself in the above-mentioned position; exhale all the air from lungs and while inhaling, lift up your arms horizontally, holding them as rigid as you can. You must make sure that you spend the same time to put the arms at a right angle with the body, as it takes to enter the air in the lungs. Immediately after, raise your arms above the head as much as you can and look to the tip of the foot. Then bend yourself slowly until touching, if possible, the floor with fingertips, without bending the knees. Then set upright while you exhale the air from lungs, let fall arms along the body. This exercise can cause at first a feeling of dizziness, but there will not be inconveniences whatsoever. This is simply because some parts of the body, especially of the lungs, which remained inactive for a long time, are now put into use. There is no exercise able to force the air to get in each particle of the lungs, as the one described above. It will take you no more than one minute each morning to perform this exercise, and a few days will be enough to convince the student that the benefits obtained are great. Not only is of great benefit to health, but also infuses to both, body and spirit, a magnetic energy not obtainable in other way. 
 
The key of muscle tension
Let us act now on the muscles. 
These are the fundamental keys to increase progressively the magnetism. The mind works on the muscular system, but the latter can act upon the mind too.
Characteristic of the work done with muscles is the nervous effort. Nervous effort activates a series of reactions in mind as well as physical exertion increases muscle mass. 
This energy is released later, and can also be increased to higher levels with subsequent contractions.
The kinds of tensions to create energy have a particularity: we tense simultaneously a muscle and his antagonist. Therefore, we do not have movement, but simple contraction. 
Some scholars have supposed that this type of muscle tension, to a psychological level corresponds to a "not done action". Whenever we do an exercise of this kind, we load a unit of energy. You can increase the tension up to vibrate. In addition, the vibration creates a pace that can ease, by resonance, the creation of brain coherence. Besides, to more simple level, muscle tension stimulates the brain and creates a similar mental tension, able to enhance your thought.
Exercise 23
Inhale and stretch arms before in front and then alongside, but not the hands, they remain relaxed. Exhale slowly. Repeat several times.
Exercise 3 


Lefebure "experiences initiatiques"
Rise up on your toes inhaling; meanwhile clench fists, but only those, arms should be relaxed. This exercise develops, if performed inhaling and thinking of the word "energy", energy and strength.
Muscle Fixity exercises
In addition to the simple tension, it is also important to control the muscle strength. On muscular level, we will develop now fixity and attention. 
Exercise 4 
This exercise builds fixity and self-confidence. Stretch out the right arm horizontally toward your right, and at the same time turn head to the right, staring intensely your fingertips.

Little by little, prolong the duration of the exercise. You have to alternate arms. Complicate the exercise, holding a glass of water in your hand and staring intensely at the water level, which you have to keep as steady as you can. 


 
This exercise is also present in Count Kowalski‘s "A system of Caucasian Yoga".
Develop attention and gaze
To lead another one, we must first be able to lead ourselves. A wandering mind accomplishes very little. Be able to maintain attention means being able to keep mind’s "focus" on what one wishes to realize or in any case in a specific direction. It is a skill that once acquired is self-keeping. Indeed, you will be more concentrated in everyday life, study, work and be naturally more persuasive. 
In addition, the power of attention and concentration of thought, that you will so develop, will allow you to "fix" more easily in the body the results achieved with other types of exercise too. 
One uses attention while operating fascinative hypnosis, in which the mind of the customer is guided in a particular way. 
In the western verbal hypnosis too is important the subject's attention. 
The American hypnotist Milton Erickson, for example, was a teacher in driving attention. He was leading the subject to realize minimum details of his reactions, and from there was driving him to discover his own moods and resources.
In the East too, they consider attention one of the basic features for the development of mental abilities. These schools bring the student work to control and guide gradually his attention up to get incredible results. The first step of this concentration type is called “Dharana”.
Simple attention
This is the first development level of this capacity. 
When to perform it?
It is crucial. You must get to keep your eyes open as much as possible without blinking. Try to tend to keep them open at least fifteen minutes.
Exercise 1: the first exercise of attention
This exercise is also very suitable to create a powerful gaze and is a crucial exercise. Choose a point, a letter in a book or some other small item and begin to fix it intensively without blinking; all your attention has to be headed to the point. When it comes to blink, stop. You have to because when you blink the mind changes. When you are interested in something, eyelids do not flinch. Try to

Milton Erickson "Healing in Hypnosis"
Erickson, Rossi "Hypnotic realities"
Patanjali’s fourth book of aphorisms, the base text for the Yoga study, which outlines global philosophy, begins with a series of sentences related to "concentration on one point".
Ormond Mc Gill "Hypnotism and Mysticism of India"
The fact that mind changes when blinking has been proved and tested in many ways: see for example the article "Eyes blinking reaction and its use in hypnosis" Anatoly Tkachev, M.A. and Inga Topeshko, M.A. This experiment shows how the blink 


gradually increase the time during which you can remain without blinking: you can start with a few tens of seconds and then gradually increase up to a minute, then start to add a minute at a time until you reach a quarter of an hour. Always rest a bit your eyes keeping them closed after doing this exercise. In theory, you could keep them closed for the same period and work, at that time, on visualization, trying to review what you have just observed. Do not ever rub them with your hands, not to irritate them. This exercise is very helpful, one of the best for those who want to learn how to hypnotize quickly and efficiently.
Exercise 5 
Make a great effort to read a page of a book every day without ever close your eyes. You will see the results already achieved with the previous exercise improving.
 Exercise 6 
Another exercise you can do often and with many benefits is staring to an object at short distance, getting closer to it always staring, never lowering eyelids.
In addition to its attractive effect, a nurtured gaze allows expressing different thoughts and feelings with an intensity that deeply impresses; in addition, the action of such a hypnotic gaze gives to whoever owns it a precious ascendancy.
With the practice of fascination, you can perform a series of exercises very simple, also called “basic exercises".
Here we will teach now some of those basic exercises, assuming the fixity already obtained.
1 ° in a living room, in the Church, theater, or any other meeting place, where several people are sitting one at the front of the other, gaze at the nape a person placed ahead of you at a distance of 2-3 meters concentrating all your energy on the idea of acting on her and make her turn, which will happen if the person is sensitive. You can also direct the action of the eyes on the two scapular or combine them into one point, for example on one of the first dorsal vertebrae. It is interesting to notice that very often the person will react immediately after your look.
2 ° make another attempt on the street, remaining two meters behind the chosen person.
3 ° with the second successful experience, you may want that person turning to the right or left. Formulating clearly in your mind the idea of left or right makes this purpose very easy. You can also do this by observing a group of people walking down the street and it is a very easy exercise.
4 ° on train, on tram, choose an individual seated facing to you whose place is appreciably to the right or left of that which is opposite. Simulate to
normally occurs on words meaningful to the subject and at times when there is interchange conscious reasoning - unconscious mind. Even the ancients had noted the importance of the gaze, e.g. Isigonus, Aulus Gellius, Pliny, and bring attention to this element (fixe intueri).delle palpebre avvenga normalmente su parole significative per il soggetto ed in momenti in cui si ha interscambio ragionamento conscio-mente inconscia. Anche gli antichi avevano osservato l’importanza dello sguardo fisso, ad es. 
look straight, to give the impression that you do not see, but look at him sideways, directing to him with the stronger mental power you can, and say to yourself with all the energy you feel capable of, you want him to look in your direction. The chosen person will soon become restless, nervous, as if she was aware of a force that dominates her, and will end up looking on your side or even staring at you. 
5 ° Get to the window and look at a person who comes towards you. If you fix it with sufficient energy expressing the will that raises her head and looks at you, it will almost invariably, obeying your mental recall. The experience can be done with the same process in backward conditions; namely, passing you set one person at a window. Two action elements come into the scene in this series of experiences: the magnetic power of gaze and the concentration of thought. When these experiences have succeeded once on two, you have conscience that you can dominate others and impose your will in large measure. Other experiments you can then try with the help of a friend or an ordinary person. Suppose that you want to obtain from him a service or an object from which he does not want to part from. You will focus your thoughts on the idea that he must deliver this object, without having him to suspect what action you want to exercise. You will place yourself in front of him talking about the satisfaction you would feel if you had the object even only for a few minutes, you stare to the subject of the experiment with sweetness and persistence, like to let his brain absorb the idea of handing over the object.
If the penetration of the gaze is sufficiently developed, and if thought concentration is quite large, you will quickly notice that every word has, on the subject, a physical effect that goes straight to the point you want to reach. The interlocutor, who does not take long to be more or less completely subjugated, abdicates the throne and ends up giving the object that you want.
Here there is evidently a beginning of hypnotizing. Until you hold someone under your eyes, you greatly diminish more and more the strength of his judgment and his will. Dealing in a convenient manner this principle, for example during a long interview, it is sure you will deeply disturb the interlocutor. Remember that what you said, by making use of the central gaze (namely the root of the nose, between the two eyes) would remain encrusted in his memory. With the mastery of the exercise, you are able to penetrate deeply into the subconscious of the subject. Your words may also have not had on time a success in accordance with your wishes, but they will continue to occupy the spirit of the subject.
If you want to avoid to be affected yourself by the ascendant of a person you are talking with, stop your central gaze as soon as he takes the word, lead it above or below his eyes, but not in the eyes. It takes a long practice to preserve the full integrity of judgment in front of a person who will stare at your eyes.
When, in company, you will put for some seconds an indifferent but firm and supported gaze on someone, mentally expressing the desire that this guy feels impelled to seek you, you will create in him this desire. 
Develop Presence for yourself 
As much as possible in everyday life, try “to be there for yourself". When you really understand this concept, you will realize how crucial it is. It is the absolute key. The exercises that we present here for presence are:
1)   Exercise of the point of standing; to maintain for as long as possible
2) Exercise of "three times ten minutes", to create a space for the presence
3)  More useful exercises
When to perform the recommended exercises?
None of these exercises will actually steal your time, since you will perform them contemporarily to your daily activities. In particular, the exercise of the point of standing and "three times ten minutes" they must be performed as often as possible.
 
Basic concepts
The presence is a status of natural conscience, an enlarged perception compared to our concept of consciousness. 
It can also be defined as a status of "reintegration".
Gurdjieff, many ancient alchemists, wise oriental Taoists, those who practice Yoga, and all of the esoteric traditions of all continents, they gather at the Summit on the concept of presence.
Reintegration and Presence
The presence is a gift essential to strengthen your fascinative force. 
Virtually, we do not leave anything out of us. In the practice, the first step is to develop the "know that we are there." If we are "present”, we are energetically denser in the situation. To develop such a gift, we have "to want” to become increasingly conscious of ourselves. We have to be "in things", not to live our life in our thoughts. 
"While the Id begins to consider itself, they mildly fall, one by one, all the barriers that previously "being unaware of itself ", prevented it to admire the perfect inner harmony, until He can see itself in its fullness”.
If we want to fascinate we must learn to be outside of our mental thoughts and conceptualizations of the average person. 
Exercise 7 
Create a fixed point. Try to pay attention mentally to the exact feeling in your right hand, then the left, then right foot, then left. Do the same with knees, elbows, ears, fingers, etc. During the day, you can extend the exercise, remaining always conscious of a part of yourself.
Note. -To grasp the exact sensation, the student has to focus his thought on the point indicated, without letting the mind wander. The properly performed concentration, will give a sensation that the student will easily be able to recognize; sometimes is a stinging, other times a light impact or the impression that blood is heading to the designated point. You can also put a finger on any point, and insistently focus the thought on the touched point.
Exercise 62

  	Light – in "The mirrors" – Ignis – p. 262
Is the same action of attention, but in motion. As you walk, talk, keep a fixed reference point in yourself. Better a peripheral point. Take consciousness for example of your hand, your foot. This exercise will help to separate gradually the perception of the body from your emotional and to acquire greater consciousness. Experimentally we observe that, constantly operating and maintaining awareness of the body, first it take place a rebalancing and realignment due to the abandonment of unnecessary tensions; and is a feeling of energy too. After a little, we pass to a further stadium. Continuing in the work of the body consciousness we will even leave useless identifications (which are "mental activities", mental projections of the body) coming to a perception of it as "not expressible verbally." The body is something real and is no longer an "Id". 
 
The rule of "three times ten minutes"
Since one "falls asleep" too easily, decide to be present for yourself three times for ten minutes every day. You have to hear, see, and be into reality at the highest level.
 
Other exercises
All the exercises that follow now will have a short duration at the beginning; the unexercised could not hope for a too long presence in themselves. We must here clarify what we intend for exercise perfectly performed. An exercise is perfectly executed until in the brain there is no break in the continuity of attention. It is therefore obvious that we cannot perform well the exercise and worry if the exercise is well executed at the same time. The same moment mind asks this question, the exercise is finished. Therefore, the question “Do I have performed well this year?" will always be related to an exercise already accomplished, could not be more than merely retrospective.
So while you work, think to the exercise, not to “the performance of the exercise”.
Please consider this sentence, because the secret of success is wrapped in it. 
Memento. – Do not get exhausted in an effort to unduly prolong an exercise. At the beginning, when an exercise has been perfectly executed for a very short time, you can call yourself satisfied. Rather than prolong the duration for that day, you shall switch to a different exercise.
 
Exercise 8 – arm folding
Bend the arm on itself to touch the shoulder with your hand. Execute the movement slowly, controlling it, namely placing your attention on what you are doing and without any external thought. A similar exercise is well performed only when the mind does not distract, not even a moment. The brain must give sufficient impetus to the movement; attention has to follow this movement until the end. When you have learned to perform well in this exercise, practice it progressively for 2, 3, 4, 5 times. Alternate arms; perform the same by bending the leg on the thigh. 
Exercise 9 - The finger.
Sit comfortably, one hand on the knee, keeping it closed except the middle finger that you will lengthen in the direction of the thigh. Raise and lower the finger slowly for 10, 15, 20 times. The exercise consists in not letting your attention ever detach from the swinging finger, this for longer each time.
Exercise 10 - The funnel. 
Sitting, place in front of you an empty bottle in which you will introduce a glass funnel. In the bottom of the funnel place some cotton wool, then fill the funnel with water. The water then will descend slowly in the bottle filtering through the cotton. The exercise consists in sticking your attention to the decreasing level of liquid. You do not have to distract. During the exercise the pupils must remain constantly fixed on the liquid’s level, resisting the invitation of the eyelids that would like to close. If you find that in the meantime, you diverted your attention, or if the pupils come off even for an instant from the liquid, the exercise has failed and everything is to be done again. 
If you do not have a glass funnel, observe instead of the decreasing level in the funnel, the increasing level into the bottle. Later you will resume the exercise complicating it, straining not to hear the noise of the liquid going down. (See further, exercises of elimination).
Exercise 11 Necklace. Get amber or glasses necklaces, whose grains can scroll at pleasure on the thread holding them. The exercise is to count necklace’s grains without thinking of anything else. Begin to count a few, and then gradually increase the number. The Indians, to whom this exercise is familiar, not infrequently count many thousands of grains not minding about what is happening around them and without diverting mind on other thoughts. In the absence of a necklace, you can practice to count, in the manner above described, dried beans, hazelnuts, etc.
Exercise 12. Thumbs. Sit, cross your fingers and start shooting right thumb on the left with isochronous. The exercise consists in keep your mind focused on what you are doing without ever diverting it. Gradually prolong the duration of the exercise.
Exercise 13. Fists closed.
Sit; put closed fists on the table. Then open a finger at a time really slowly, giving attention on the motion of your finger. Open one after the other the fingers of a hand first, then the fingers of the other hand; then the homonymous fingers of both hands: e.g. the two indices, the two medium, the two rings, etc. We repeat again: in this, as in all others, the exercise is not to make the movement indicated, but forcing thought to follow the movement without any interruption whatsoever, in order to train the mind to an increasingly long concentration on a particular subject.
Exercise 14. Clapping. 
Beat the palms against each other rhythmically during an increasingly long time; or counting the number of times. The mind has meanwhile to think only to that movement performed by your hands.
Exercise 15. Steps.
Walk regularly for five steps, providing you have in your brain the feel that you move forward the right foot, then the left. Having managed this exercise, make an effort to have (always in the brain) the exact sensation of entire leg, going forward, and later even the feeling of the whole body that moves.
Exercise 16. Touch. 
Take any object: e.g. a pencil, a paper holder, a watch. The exercise consists in determining mentally the exact sensation the object gives to your touch: its shape, the feeling of weight or heat, du-safety, etc. To simplify the exercise begin to determine one at a time the feelings of the various qualities of the examined object; then you can reach (but only hardly, and after a long workout) the contemporary and comprehensive determination of all the sensations of touch. 
Exercise 5. The view.
1. Open and close rapidly, the buffet of your dining room and describe the number and quality of the objects that you have seen. 
2. Pass quickly in front of a storefront and make inventory as above.
Exercise 18. The hearing.
 

Note: this exercise is not only an excellent training for concentration, but is also an excellent gym of the mind.

Bring your attention exclusively on a chosen among many noises affecting your ear: e.g. the noise of the tram passing, the tick of a clock, etc. You have to concentrate to the point of not having in your mind anything else but the sensation of this noise: do not think to the tram or the clock, but the noise they make. The described exercises you must perform in the solitude of your room at the beginning. Then the student has to begin accustomed to do them in the midst of the people, amid the noise. In doing so he will increase the certainty of being able to concentrate where he wants and when he wants.
Exercise 19 -Sleep and wake up.
Remember a picture and then return to the present moment. Understand where the image and details is. In fact, in everyday life, when you lose the presence and retake it, it is normally for an image or a sound. With this exercise, virtually “we change world"
Exercise 20 – the needle
Take an ordinary pin, with black pinhead and let it run through the center of the page of a book. You can easily use any page of this book, but it will be better to use a book that you are not familiar with and even better if you never read it. Put the book away as usual to read extensively and focus at the pinhead. These done, try to see as many words as you can, close to pinhead, without moving even for an instant your eyes from the point above mentioned. At this moment, you will feel an almost irresistible desire to direct your gaze on the words themselves, but do not support it. Imprint in your mind the words as they appear and when you have sent to memory every word possible within the radius of your vision without moving the gaze, close your eyes quickly and write on a piece of paper the words memorized. Later you can check this list confronting it with the words on the page where the needle was plunged and if you do not match will be a sign that you were not be following exactly the prescriptive instructions and it would be good to repeat the exercise. In this case, it will be advisable to choose a different page.
Exercise 21 – count without counting 
Watch a series of slats or vertical elements and without counting how many there are. This exercise does not interest as memory. As Virgil says: "when I see everything as a unity, I have more power". Therefore, virtually we need to count objects without counting. This technique leads our minds to work better, eliminates mental difference between "background" and "foreground" expressed in Gestalt terms, namely between part and whole.
Further comments on the last two exercises 
Virtually the last two exercises above mentioned will help us to connect the "look" with the "watch". 
This is a typical attribute of a person who is present. Normally this man combines two elements: the watching, which is the act of observing giving attention, and the seeing, which is the act of global perception. 
The two moments can also be defined as the first and second attention. 
First attention: it stands on the particular, on the item. 
Second attention: it defines the so-called global attention that can reach up to the so-called Ganzfeld (in German, unique field) where there are no more contours. Watching attention focuses on the fovea and is linked to the process of thought and attention to closer elements. Seeing attention is then more global and connected to emotions. A complete and powerful vision combines the

Jean Pierre de Giudicelli has taught us this exercise


ability to see with that of watching because doing so also connects different brain areas.








Exit peripherals Trances 
We often move eyes in various positions and without realizing it we enter into a trance. The phenomenon has been observed in PNL. The following exercise is useful to minimize this type of "trance."


 Infinity 1
Here is an exercise that seems easy, but it is very difficult to perform correctly. It is about tracking mentally without discontinuity and for a time growing the mathematical sign for infinity, similar to an 8 lying down. You can do it in the country or in open spaces. Imagine, therefore, seeing this immensely big sign standing out in brightness. You must, starting from any point, follow the continuous curve, without ever removing the eyes of the mind. This simple exercise helps the inter-hemispheric coordination as well as it makes it more difficult to lose your presence at certain times. 
Infinity 2
Observed a point in front of you and then executed movements as a lying eight (?) with the head, so that your pupils are obliged to perform this movement while always looking the point. Try to be always attentive to the point. This exercise develops attention a lot.





Restore "sub-sensorialties"
 
We call "sub-sensorialty" a series of outermost sensorial responses that normally we do not realize, and happen below the level of our consciousness (subliminal). To be increasingly present they must be reintegrated. Integrate sub-sensorialties is the key to increase oneself sensitivity.
We have: 
At physical level sensations of magnetism
At visual level the so-called "auras"
At auditory level "sub sounds"
The following exercises can help integrate these sub-sensorialties
 
BODY
Magnetic sensations
Move a finger towards the palm of your hand. Even without touching, the palm will feel a tingling sensation; move away the finger, and notice how there may be a remaining feeling.
After this preliminary exercise, work out every day to bring energy to your "hara" (your navel) through the “magnetic steps”.
 
VIEW
The Aura
Exercise 22 –focus on the mirror
In front of a mirror performs the following steps: 
With an uninterrupted light not too strong, breathe slowly and look at your face in a mirror. It is ideal to do this when you are a little tired, but not too much.
Keep yourself in a relaxed status and focus on the center point, an eye or your forehead.
In a short time, you will feel heat in the back of the neck. At this point, continue to focus.
This heat is your energy. Now you can imagine to be opening a door. 
At this point, you see a white light around you and watch the image change
Note – eliminate the eventual headache 
The previous exercise could leave a slight feeling of a headache. You can easily eliminate headaches resulting from this exercise by placing one hand on the heart and the other on the forehead. Then remove your hand from the forehead and put it on the back of the neck, this eliminates the sensation
Exercise 23 -aura
You can use the same technique to see what it is called "aura".
Relax and inwardly head towards seeing the aura of the subject. Breathe in slowly. Look through or around the subject. When you defocus an outline light appears. 
 
HEARING
The inner sound
Cover your ears. You will feel like a mumble. It is blood passing close to your auditory cells. Keep attention to this noise. Try to listen in a quiet environment even without covering your ears and remaining present. Then try to expand your perception until you can capture it as often as possible.
 
Exercises for hemispheres and the awakening of the central fire
The purpose of exercises that follow is the awakening of your central fire.
 
When to perform them?
They have to be performed until this new status will be fixed in you. After, you may continue them at will, as you will notice they develop your ultimate energy and are always of benefit.
 
Basic Concepts
To develop fascination is also essential to handle the energies of the spinal column, the central canal of the Caduceus Western Hermetic, the Indians’ Kundalini.
Indeed, in the spine, they meet symbolically three ducts called Sympathetic, Vagus and Central corresponding to those Yogi calls Ida, Pingala and Sushunna. Ida and Pingala are the left and right side respectively. 
When their energies meet then you can develop the core energy.
Under other latitudes, the concept expresses in all systems, for example in the cabal, we have a central pillar and two side pillars.
If we look at this from a neurological point of view, we may think that the liberation of the core energy is tied to a particular interaction between the two halves of the body, each corresponding to a cerebral hemisphere.
The man is in fact, except for some organs, completely symmetrical, and the most recent neurological studies coincide in fact to observe that in humans there are two hemispheres each one with its own specialization. Virtually it is as if we had two brains to govern our body. 
For the development of inner power one has to ensure that these operate in a consistent manner. In order to have this happen, primarily the spine must be aligned.
Since this concept is linked also to the vertical, to the meeting between Earth and sky, expressing us symbolically, it also follows that more a person is, as they say with modern term "grounded", with her feet on the ground, the more can be a fascinator. 
Let us start with some simples 
Exercise 24: grounding. 
Bring attention to your vertical and the weight of your body to Earth. Continue in this attention, marching.
25: body flexibility Exercise
Another very valuable exercise to maintain the elasticity of the torso is to put hands on the hips, and turn body from right to left. In this way, we avoid tensions that could block the energy.
Exercise 26: head 
They also rotate their heads from right to left. It is indeed up to the neck, which often create tension which can block the energy. Even more effective is the rotation is made before bringing back the head.
Exercise: 27. 
Resume exercises of presence indicated previously

In our book, Mesmerismus and "Trance" there are many exercises are useful for this purpose.

At this point, we are ready for the "exercises for hemispheres" that are symbolically linked to polarities in humans.
Probably a school of this type, connected with the development of the power of gaze, is probably present in Italy even since pre-Roman eras, which would explain how there are still many people who know and practice this technique. The Etruscans had in fact represented the eye on many everyday objects. Moreover, their winged deity in the symbology below implies the same concepts of the exercise that we will be presenting shortly.
In it, we may see how the power of breathing (represented by the wing, which is the element of air) relates to the eye. At the same time we see clearly how this is a force, represented by the sword.
The two aquatic tails show clearly the dual aspect behind this energy.










Since tails belong in their form, to the aqueous element, symbol in its entirety (though we do not have evidence of the matter) may easily represent the exercise that follows: from the meeting of two different aqueous energies and the energy of breathing you extract the power (represented by the sword).
To do this you must work at both physical and energetic level.
Dominate polarities with the hot water/cold water exercise
To develop the basic energy we must therefore be able to overcome polarities. Polarities are also expressions of a dualistic vision of the world, a product of our mind and our ego that has learned to interpret the sensory data according to pre-established patterns. 
How many people complain constantly! Being influenced by world distinctions, beautiful/ugly, pleasant/unpleasant etc… this means virtually to live in a reality built from the outside and based on the concepts. 
The magnetic man builds instead his world and his reality. Moreover, the first point where we must surpass us is in ourselves. We must be able to build our world and live our reality.
A way to access each symbol is represented by the sensorial experience. A major exercise called "hot water and cold water". It consists in

Dennis, Etruria, vol. ii. p. 160
This exercise is among the first, if not the first in the tradition of Virgilio t.

modify perceptions, to reverse the physical polarity of perception of the water element. 
This exercise works physiologically to hemispheric level, since each hand is tied to a different hemisphere. When we operate at the same time on two hands then we arrive at a new and higher sense of unity.
Exercise 28: Hot water and cold water.
1) Put a basin with cold water to the right
2) Put a basin with hot water to the left 
3) Put a hand in the basin of cold water and a hand in warm water basin and at the same time try to reverse the perceptions. Some will totally. Others will only partly. Anyway, make the maximum effort and act without using the imagination (so you do not have e.g. to imagine ice) but the willpower only.
Note, it could seem it was you heating the water. Then you will see that you actually have achieved control over your perceptions.
 
Exercise 29: With breathing 
Perform the same exercise again, but holding breath
 
The exercise has a strong symbolic value. 
The first symbol of the exercise: the non conditioning
With this exercise our being is no more influenced from temperatures of "waters" (symbolized by an arrow that goes down ?).
The second symbol of the exercise: the upper dimension
With this exercise, you log on to an aerial dimension that is no longer tied to "land" (symbol ?). The tradition symbolized this dimension by an early development of mercury (symbol r). Namely we are at a point where the polarities meet and can be controlled.  
 
Process
The first phase of the awakening of the serpent power (namely basic energy, symbolized by the symbol of Aries A, serpentine energy linked to the deeper layers of our mind). It occurs only when "our Center will know how to move into the fluidic body and will be detached from primary senses and isolated, as a result, from the physical world". Indeed, to perform the exercise, you shall develop a new status in yourself, detached from physical senses.
Then the fire of consciousness D can afford to project the energy. This projection may be accompanied by a specific sound (mantra). You are awakening magnetism.
This will be fixed later by subsequent repetitions of the exercise and its evocation through memory, even without water.



Physically and symbolically. The use of the symbol in our tradition coincides with a reality.
The second is the projection of the force in itself.
Abraxa – Ur and Krur

Breathing to dominate the polarities
Our breathing, without we notice it, passes alternately from one nostril to the other.  The researcher Ernest Rossi observed that this alternation of rhythms follows specific rhythms and matches the different activation of the two cerebral hemispheres.  Symbolically, the right nostril is linked to activity, while the left to passivity. A balancing exercise is alternating breathing in, namely the inhale with one nostril and exhale with the other. 
81: breathing exercise.
1) Inhale right while holding (closing) the left nostril and fill the lungs
1) Exhale left holding (closing) the right nostril.
2) Re-inhale to the left keeping closed the right nostril 
3) Exhale right while closing the left nostril
4) Keep on doing it
You can add a particular respiratory rhythm in the exercise above, or run it just as well.


Presence to head sides with the two seconds’ rhythm
Be aware of the right side of the head, and then of the left one. Continue alternating for a short time. Follow with presence at the front of the head and the back of the head. Continue with the top of the head and the bottom. As you develop a stronger Central, you will feel increasingly centered on you.
The rate shall be the following: a second to right and a second to left, repeating for some times, then a second ahead and a second back, repeating for several times too, and similarly for top and bottom.
This rhythm according to the researches of Prof. Lefebure improves brain and opens the way to the psychic faculties.
In particular the exercise above will enable you to rekindle the "central fire" whenever is about to become extinct.
 



Symbolism of Caduceus repeats what was said earlier about the reported Etruscan deity. The two snakes symbolize the side energies, and the Central stick corresponds to the Central energy.
Ernest Rossi, "The mind-body Biology"
Respirazione per dominare le polarità
La nostra respirazione, senza che noi ce ne accorgiamo, passa alternativamente da una narice all'altra. 
Il ricercatore Ernest Rossi[1] ha osservato come questo alternarsi segua dei ritmi specifici e corrisponda al differente attivarsi dei due emisferi cerebrali. 
Simbolicamente, la narice destra è legata all'attività, mentre la sinistra alla passività. 
Un esercizio equilibrante consiste allora nella respirazione alternata, vale a dire nell'inspirare con una narice ed espirare con l'altra.
Esercizio 81: respirazione alternata.
1) 
Inspirate a destra trattenendo (chiudendo) la narice sinistra e riempite totalmente i polmoni
1) 
Espirate a sinistra trattenendo (chiudendo) la narice destra.
2) 
Reinspirate a sinistra tenendo sempre chiusa la narice destra
3) 
Espirate a destra chiudendo la narice sinistra
4) 
Continuate cosi’
Potete aggiungere un ritmo respiratorio particolare all’esercizio sopra indicato o eseguirlo semplicemente cosi’.
Presenza ai lati della testa con il ritmo dei due secondi
Siate coscienti della parte destra della testa, e poi della parte sinistra. 
Continuate alternando per un poco di tempo. 
Seguite con presenza alla parte di fronte della testa ed al retro della testa. 
Continuate con la parte alta della testa e la parte bassa della testa. 
Man mano svilupperete uno stato centrale sempre più forte, vi sentirete sempre più centrati in voi.
Il ritmo deve essere il seguente: un secondo a destra ed un secondo a sinistra, ripetendo per qualche volta, poi un secondo avanti ed un secondo indietro, ripetendo anche qui varie volte, ed analogamente per alto e basso.
Questo ritmo secondo le ricerche del Prof. 
Lefebure migliora il funzionamento cerebrale e apre la strada alle facoltà psichiche.
In particolare l’esercizio sopra indicato potrà permettervi di ravvivare il “fuoco centrale” ogni qualvolta stia per estinguersi.
[1]
Ernest Rossi “La biologia mente-corpo”
A questo punto siamo pronti per gli “esercizi per gli emisferi” che sono anche simbolicamente legati alle polarità nell’uomo.
Probabilmente una scuola di questo tipo legata allo sviluppo della potenza dello sguardo è probabilmente presente in Italia addirittura da epoche pre-romane, cosa che spiegherebbe come ancora adesso si trovino sulla penisola molte persone che conoscano e praticano questa tecnica. 
Gli etruschi amavano infatti rappresentare l’occhio su molti oggetti di uso comune. 
E la loro divinità alata[1] riportata nella simbologia qui sotto implica gli stessi concetti dell’esercizio che presenteremo fra poco.
In essa appare come la forza della respirazione (rappresentata dall’ala, cioè l’elemento aria) sia legata all’all’occhio. 
Al contempo vediamo chiaramente come questo sia una forza rappresentata dalla spada.
Le due code acquatiche mostrano chiaramente l’aspetto duplice alla base di questa energia.
Poiché le code appartengono nella loro forma all’elemento acqueo, il simbolo nella sua interezza, (anche se non abbiamo prove certe al riguardo) potrebbe rappresentare facilmente l’esercizio che segue: dalla riunione di due energie acquee differenti e dall’energia della respirazione si estrae la potenza (rappresentata dalla spada).
Per far ciò è necessario un lavoro sia a livello fisico che a livello energetico.
Dominare le polarità con l’esercizio acqua calda / acqua fredda
Per sviluppare l’energia di base dobbiamo quindi essere in grado di superare le polarità. 
Sono anche polarità le espressioni della visione dualistica del mondo, un prodotto della nostra mente e soprattutto del nostro ego che ha imparato ad interpretare i dati sensori secondo modelli precostituiti. 
Quanta gente si lamenta continuamente! 
Farci influenzare dalle distinzioni del mondo, bello/brutto, piacevole/spiacevole ecc… significa in pratica vivere in una realtà costruita dall’esterno e basata sui concetti. 
L’uomo magnetico costruisce invece lui il suo mondo e la sua realtà. 
E il primo punto dove dobbiamo superarci è in noi stessi. 
Dobbiamo essere in grado di costruire il nostro mondo e vivere la nostra realtà.
Un modo per accedere ad ogni simbolo è rappresentato dalla sensorialità. 
Un fondamentale esercizio è chiamato “acqua calda ed acqua fredda”[2]. 
Consiste nel
[1]
Dennis, Etruria, vol ii. p. 160
[2]
Questo esercizio è tra i primi, se non il primo nella tradizione di Virgilio T.
 Reintegrare le “sottosensorialità”
Chiamiamo “sottosensorialità” una serie di sensorialità ultraperiferiche di cui normalmente non ci rendiamo conto, e che avvengono sotto il livello della nostra coscienza (subliminali). 
Per essere sempre più presenti esse devono essere reintegrate. 
Integrare le sottosensorialità è la chiave per aumentare la propria sensibilità.
Avremo: 
a livello fisico le sensazioni del MAGNETISMO
a livello visivo le cosiddette “auree”
a livello uditivo i “sottosuoni”
I seguenti esercizi possono aiutare ad integrare queste sottosensorialità
CORPO
Le sensazioni magnetiche
Avvicinate un dito al palmo della vostra mano. 
Anche senza toccare il palmo avvertirete una sensazione come di formicolio sullo stesso; 
allontanate il dito e notate come vi possa essere una sensazione che permane.
Dopo quest’esercizio preliminare, allenatevi quotidianamente a portare energia al vostro “hara” (il vostro ombelico) attraverso i “passi magnetici”.
VISTA
L’Aura
Esercizio 
22
– concentrazione allo specchio
Di fronte ad uno specchio eseguite i seguenti passaggi: 
Con una luce non troppo forte e senza interruzioni, respirate lentamente e guardate la vostra faccia in uno specchio. 
L'ideale è praticare questo quando siete un poco stanchi, ma non troppo
Rimanete in uno stato rilassato e focalizzatevi sul punto centrale, un occhio o la vostra fronte.
In breve tempo potrete sentire un calore nel retro del collo. 
A questo punto continuate a fissare
Questo calore è la vostra energia. 
Potete immaginare di aprire ora una porta
a questo punto vedete una luce bianca attorno a voi ed osservate l'immagine che cambia
Nota 
– eliminare il mal di testa eventuale 
L’esercizio precedente potrebbe lasciare una leggera sensazione di mal di testa. 
Potete facilmente eliminare i mal di testa conseguenti a quest'esercizio piazzando una mano sul cuore e l'altra sulla fronte. 
Successivamente togliete la mano dalla fronte e mettetela sul retro della nuca. 
questo elimina la sensazione.
Esercizio 
23
- aura
Potete utilizzare la stessa tecnica per vedere quella che viene chiamata “l'aura”.
Rilassatevi e dirigetevi interiormente verso il vedere l'aura del soggetto. 
Respirate lentamente. 
Guardate attraverso o attorno al soggetto. 
Quando defocalizzate appare una luce di contorno. 
UDITO
Il suono interiore
Tappatevi le orecchie. 
Sentirete come un borbottio. 
E’ il sangue che passa vicino alle vostre cellule uditive. 
Mantenete attenzione su questo rumore. 
Cercate di sentirlo in un ambiente silenzioso anche senza tapparvi le orecchie e rimanendo presenti. 
Successivamente cercate di ampliare la vostra percezione fino a poterlo catturare il più spesso possibile.

The glance
Another very important exercise is what is called "near-far", or "glance".  
It consists in observing a distant point and at the same time maintaining peripheral consciousness in the field close to the point and vice versa.
This exercise, when properly executed, combines two elements: 1) the adjustment of gaze, 2) the fact that both eyes are "awake"
Exercise 30 – near-far
Holding the hand stretched out in front of you, practically consists in focusing first at your thumb and then at a distance. If the exercise is done well, we will see, in the side field, two thumbs (due to non-centered vision of the eye) when we look far away, and two distant objects (due to non-centered vision of the eye) when we look close.
Exercise 31 – with breathing 
The same exercise, holding your breath
 
















The Key of Light

Light is an important tool that can awaken in a person's abilities and powers.
The light stimulates the mind at the global level, increasing creativity, willingness to do, and energy.
The direct light brings solar qualities: enthusiasm, energy 
Instead, reflected light stimulates Lunar qualities, such as insight and clairvoyance, (indeed, reflected light is polarized. Therefore, physiologically, our mind and our neurons are stimulated in such a way that facilitates in mind the creation of "fields of coherence", useful for these results).
 
A very useful exercise is the following, which you can repeat when you feel like:
1° think of a quality that you desire
2° observe light mentally repeating the name of this quality for about thirty seconds
3° close your eyes, look at the residual image and do not think of anything
4° when the light track is disappeared open our eyes and notice the change in you.
 
All the times you perform exercises with light and afterimage, you increase brain capacity.
 
A way to perform these exercises is coupled with exercises of Visual Memory. In this case, you will observe lit objects (i.e. with a reflection). In the following pages you can read more specifications about.















Mental images
Basis for transmutation and activation of images and symbols
For transmutation and improvement of the person, the usage of images and symbols is documented since ancient times.  Also for the current psychology, in so doing we come closer to our subconscious in a more appropriate way, the image. 
The construction of images is crucial to the realization of the meeting between will and imagination, namely between the will and the world of possibilities, and is the key that allows to imprint a particular direction at the present in the physical world, and to create the situations we want.
In other words, the magnetic individual, to impose a direction to reality, can use images.
To whom is interested only in non-duality, we answer that it is true that the final stage of the way towards non-duality passes through knowledge and overcoming of all mind condensations, including symbols. Nevertheless, before we get to that level, these are tools necessary and irreplaceable to who has spiritual purposes only. 
The first phase: To get started in this subtle domain of our imagination, or, to express it in hermetic terms, in the ability to fix our “mercury”, you can begin building images that appear in the relaxed mind, with closed eyes.
The body must eliminate any tension. Any mental effort blurs mental images. 
However, this phase, we call it passive imagination, is only an initial step in which you do not have to indulge too much. In fact, if we stay too long in the passive stage, the ability to infuse an impulse to our unconscious is becoming increasingly weak, and we end up with appearing images dominating us. We enter in a negative trance where imagination reigns. We risk to take the mood of the “peaceful dreamer” type.  
Second phase: The positive trance is the next step. It is more tiring, and consists of imagining whatever you want to. It is the union between will and imagination. 
It is then a first level of realization of the Hermetic Caduceus. 
• Remember that the images you create are totaling, in other words, when we speak of “imagination”, we mean something that is both visually and aurally, both tangible and perceptible.
It takes time to achieve at maximum degree the ability to shape our mental material as clay, but the results are worth the effort. You will notice an increase in personal influence,
and you'll realize that often the person beside you feel the same emotions you do.
This phenomenon of "correlation" (to use a quantum term) binds fascination too, or rather the connection to another person through the eyes.
With this type of direct technique an imagination of heat in one hand reflects in the person who looks at us, a feeling of scratchiness equally, and so forth.
However, if this has to happen without talking, in excess of having a very much evolved imagination, you must accompany it with energy exercises.
But these are results of «top school». In fact, the conscience of mental images is usually too weak in the average person to give an appreciable result, except in the case of a relationship very intense as lovers, or strong emotions.
Images usage
Our teacher Virgilio T., counseled us to observe images lit by "a reflection", then close our eyes and remember them exactly. The reflected light improves the retentive memory. Virtually, you will have a very strong light falling on the images that you want to focus on. In many traditions, there is just a habit of putting light sources close to important symbols.
• Transmutation
To stay in the Western tradition, the observation of icons and images is a fundamental element for the transmutation of man8. Often these images are lit. Next to the symbol, is therefore essential the usage of light, which leads to ' multiplication ' of the image’s effect.
• Image & health
The simple positive visualization, ' fixing ' the mercury of imagination can also act on health. Several scientific studies support the validity of that practice. In addition, for example, my collaborator Susanna (mentioned previously) has experienced the disappearance of a fibroid she was already been scheduled for surgery for, simply imagining his disappearance every night before falling asleep. In the same way, you can change behaviors and inveterate habits.
Beware, you will not get results only with technique’s aid. What we are speaking of is an art, accessible only if we increase our level of awareness. Virtually, we must realize that what we call our subconscious it is us. Reconcile with him. Is our most primal and profound being that imagines, the root of our Id. However, at the end of this phase you can already perform the additional exercises at the end of the book. Nevertheless, if you want even greater effectiveness, you must pass to the next stage.
The third stage: If, after following the instructions, you can easily view the object with your eyes closed, then you are ready for the next step: projection in physical space. Start with projecting the image onto a surface white or dark. Through these exercises, bring your spirit not to be a slave of your head, but to become real. Some call this status “positive trance”.
To simplify things, we can tie the apparition to conditioned reflexes.
Each position or repeated sound can serve this purpose.
Speaking of which, we note the relationship between art of imagination and art of memory. The latter can actually define the ability to invoke to our spirit, at the appropriate time, pictures, events, reasoning and feelings already proven because of a stimulus. The memory is then in «set the mercury», namely, the imagination is normally free and wanders in humans. The passive principle (= A) is determined by the active principle (= D) linked to memory and attention. Sulfur of active consciousness operates as a principle promoter of mercury. It is when the will guides the attention, imprinting it in our unconscious. And then, imagination and memory, merging together, feeding intelligence, namely the penetration into the deep meaning of things as mentioned by Greeks, for whom Mnemosyne was the mother of the nine Muses, to signify that is the basis for the education of human spirit.
Therefore, memory throws a bridge between the present and the past, and imagination does the same, because in connecting the world of possibilities and our will we can determine the present.


















Symbols and Mandala

The setting of certain symbols is always one of the most secret traditional instruments to increase the fascinative force. The method is similar to that still practiced in Tibet and India on certain types of Mandalas. Watching them with intensity the fascinating person takes possession of their power.
 
When to perform these exercises?
It is not critical. They are quite enhancement and expansion of the created status.
The numerological method of Virgilio T.
Our teacher Virgilio T. counseled to use the photo of a person with fascinating aptitude and focus on it intensely. At this point, the practitioner asks to gain strength with a particular language, where through a series of transformations based on Numerology, converting words into numbers so, for example, “five give me eight” is the numerological transformation of “Virgilio give me magnetism”. You can use the same Numerology to create your own "keyword" to unleash the force.
Bishoff Method
In addition to focusing on the eyes of a picture pronouncing ciphers, another technique handed down by Bishoff and others consists in the observation of a drawn eye. First, you must pay attention fixedly to the central point. Then have to expand your gaze to the global outline of the eye, returning finally to the central point.
 

And, mentioned by various schools of personal magnetism, see for example Apollonius "Manuel express de magnétisme personnel". The manual contains many handy exercises designed to increase the magnetic force through specific symbols.
The tradition of using numbers for fascination seems to have ancient origin. In an article entitled "Walks in Calabria", Caterina Pignorini-Boers, tells of seeing into a home a horseshoe, two horns, and two numbers (fatal numbers) 8 and 9 to keep away the jinx. Then she asked "why?” The elderly woman said "against the jinks" ("Pel fora fascino, signorina"). And what is it a jinks? "Ah," said the elderly woman: " eight nine, nine eight!" But why use eight and nine? "Excellence witches say six and seven." (New Anthology – Roma – 1883 – p. 71 – p. 280)
The Virgil T. method consists in the numerological sum of the letters of name, surname and date of birth. To this sum, you count also foreign letters. Then you reduce the result to a single cipher, except in the case that you have 11 or 22 (among other things 22 is the number of Cabala letters). After that, you create a phrase or a word with this number of letters. 

Other designs and Traditions based on symbols
In addition to traditions of safe source, we refer now to some ancient drawings we received that could probably have the same goal of strengthening the eye power, which initiates to the technique can still use in this direction.

 
Particularly significant is the image above (Kings-Gnostics, p. 238) where the attributes for each day of the week surround the eye, in the form of the deity who presides over each of them. These deities are symbolized by the Lion for the Dies Solis (Sunday), the Fawn for Dies Lunae (Monday - Diana Venatrix), the Scorpion for Dies Martis (Tuesday), the Dog for Dies Mercurii. The Thunderbolt appears to be the symbol of God Jupiter, and the Owl (sacred to Athena and Minerva) must have been inserted as a symbol of the Goddess Venus, since Venus is not considered as a protector towards fascination, while Minerva was always a patron deity and carried on her shield Medusa’s head. The serpent was a symbol of Hecate, one of the attributes of Diana Triformis and considered one of hers most powerful antidotes. Here we assume that the symbol was adopted as applicable to Dies Saturnii (226).
Similarly, in this ancient gem the eye appears surrounded by four symbols that can refer to elements and in any case to highest deities.
 
Observing this amulet, we think it was of Gnostic nature, and its origin was a Greek-Egyptian, although created subsequently.
Then each symbol has to be interpreted as Egyptian from the Greek point of view. As we know from Pliny (note 227) there were not deer in Africa, it is clear that whoever created this amulet must have denoted with the deer a deity of the Greek-Roman mythology; and we must therefore ask ourselves which prototype existed in Egypt whose attributes were the same of Diana of Ephesus. This may not be other than Hathor, Goddess of Moon (228). And the thunderbolt can represent Serapis, a Sun God.
Therefore, each of the symbols represented solves as the Sun or the Moon.
 
Is a sculpted Onyx (223) by Gerhard's collection, with a central eye and at sides the head of Serapis, the Eagle, the Thunderbolt, and the Dolphin. These can easily relate to the four elements: Thunderbolt to fire, Dolphin to water, Eagle to air, and the head of Serapis to Earth.







Some researchers interpret these ancient gems as amulets, but this attribution is not the only possible: there is no doubt that they can also be used as a Mandala to strengthen fascinating power by who knows the methodology and how to interpret the symbols. 
To operate in such a way the focusing, as in the Bishoff methodology, must perform first on the eye, extending then the look at the symbols viewed with peripheral side vision and eventually returning to the eye.



































Exteriorizing: The Psychic Projection.
It is possible to irradiate magnetism even at distance. These three methods of ancient origin have for common base the "retirement in silence”. That means the student has to retire into a room where cannot be disturbed nor hear any noise. Must be sitting or lying down, but at ease, and get about ten minutes during a State of absolute passivity. The muscles should be relaxed, the thought quiet.
First Method 
The first method is the mental picture. When you are in a status of calmness described above, sit down at a table and write very readably on a white sheet of paper a succinct phrase expressing a desire whatsoever. Write for example "I want to cease the disagreements I have with the guy"; or “I want Mr. X forced to do this or that other thing." After writing what you want, readably and briefly, set yourself at ease and focus on your script, concentrating the thought with intensity, but calmly, on the meaning of the lines you have on sight. Breathe deeply and slowly.
The procedure just described bases on the theory that by this means you get to produce in a perfect way some mental streams in full strength. Another explanation could come by considering the quantum nature of reality, or by the principle of synchronicity stated the first time by Carl Gustav Jung. Those who finally want to adopt a fully psychological point of view may think that it works because we create a "matrix" in our unconscious mind that tends to facilitate the occurrence of certain events. 
If you at first express simple and reasonable wishes as to enjoy better health, mental abilities, a sweeter character, you will probably succeed immediately. Insofar as you exercise, you can do more precise and detailed questions, such as those that we have mentioned. Until you will not ask for something harmful, either directly or indirectly, for the rights and happiness of your neighbor, you will get a measure of success based on the sincerity and intelligence you will show following this procedure.
Second Method
The second method is that of solar plexus. The solar plexus is the large central nerve of the spinal cord, behind the stomach hollow. Some scientists claim that the solar plexus is a brain — the abdominal brain — and that has an influence not only on body functions like breathing and heartbeat, but also on the emotional nature of the individual. 
The solar plexus is a true magnetic center, as a neuro-magnet capable of influencing others personality or be influenced by it. Here is how to proceed.
After you collect your thoughts and place yourself in the passivity already explained, lay down on a bed, after having taken the precaution of removing all the blankets that could be an obstacle to your movements. Hold your breath then, by making the chest to compress, air penetrates the abdomen and stretches it. Compressing then the abdomen, the chest fills if you also hold breathing. Each breathing, you must compress and stretch the chest and abdomen, each time, and quickly enough, for five times in a row. Then rest for 30 seconds and restart the exercise. Eventually after a new 30-second pause, restart for the third and last time.
Thus, it is easy to see, you act directly on the solar plexus making him undergo an inner and stimulant massage through the action of adjacent organs. The mental side of this theory is that during the exercise you keep the desire to meet peacefully in the spirit, and that the stimulus given to the solar plexus or nerve battery produces rejection of the thought. This rejection takes place by vibrations that influence the organism, endowed with more or less responsiveness and receptiveness, of the persons concerned. 
Third Method
The third method is the muscular method. Is an ancient secret method, very powerful. The underlying theory is that each force expressed by both, Intelligence and Spirit, Gravity, Electricity, Muscle Action, and so on, is of the same essence. These forces do not differ among themselves in the form they take to manifest itself.
Based on this theory, the student, after retiring in silence, must remain completely straight and tense every muscle in his body, as rigidly as possible. We are therefore in the presence of a force created but not used. The spirit of the student is then brought fervently on the desire that must be satisfied. He wants with all his forces that this desire fulfills. He shall ensure, at the same time, the physical force-expression, namely the rigidity of tired muscles, turns into mental strength-expression. Matters that he keeps in his mind this idea: while the force escapes from his tired muscles, it withdraws from him in the mental form of his desire, and acts in this form on personality or conditions concerned.
You can, to give an example, put into practice this exercise every morning, with thoughts like: -my business will be better — or — will live peacefully all day-or any other that you like or it is worthwhile.
Persian scientist Ibn Sina says for example that some women have the power to fascinate not only with look, but also from afar with a simple thought.
The art of conferring fascination on the eyes
Let us now talk about the practical art of making eyes strong, attractive and regaled with charming attraction. This in fact represents the central phase of the method. As several elements need to be coordinated, this part of our work is divided into 3 sections:
1. Fixity of the look;
2. Rapidity of the look;
3. Expression of the look.
It is recommended that our prescriptions should be scrupulously followed, as they will quickly lead you to a truly surprising result. In no other work than this text of ours are you in fact going to come across so many exercises with so much power at the same time. 
I. – FIXITY OF THE LOOK
As we know very well, the capacity to maintain a fixed look is one of the main prerequisites of a proficient fascinator. In addition to developing the fixity of your look, these exercises will also gift you a resolutely decisively and potent will.

Exercise 27 a
While in front of a mirror, you should fix your gaze on the third eye without batting your eyelids. You should pursue this exercise gradually, until you can manage to extend its duration. Refer in this regard to the instructions applicable to the next exercise.


INDEX
Preface	3
The original sources of our interest in the subject	7
Fields of utilization of fascination	12
Fascination in the relationship between the two sexes	21
Eye in the Tradition	23
The art of conferring fascination on the eyes	31
I. – FIXITY OF THE LOOK	31
Where to learn more?	35
Where to learn more?
Our school organizes periodically training in Mesmerism. We do both personal coaching as group training.
We call our teaching “Mesmerismus ©”. We invite you to visit us and discover, from the source, this ancient technique. Come Learn real Hypnotism and Mesmerism in France!  What we want to teach you is a large system which connects the inner preparation of the hypnotists and mesmerist to inner rejuvenation techniques that work for strengthening the character. 


Write us at 
info@neurolinguistic.com

Website:
http://www.hypnotisme.com

English page at http://www.hypnotisme.com/hypnotisme/hypnotism-mesmerism.htm





