
SUMMARY

INTRODUCTION	4
PART ONE: THE MAGIC WORLD OF NEURO-LINGUISTIC PROGRAMMING	5
WHAT EXACTLY IS NLP?	8
WHAT DOES NLP MEAN?	9
nlp & NLp 3	14
PART 2: INSTANT Rapport	15
INSTANT RAPPORT TOOLS: PROXEMIC	18
DIGITAL PROXEMIC 	18
PART three: non verbal communication	19
VALUES	22
COMMUNICATION STYLES	23
PART FOUR:  REPRESENTATIVE OR SENSORIAL SYSTEMS	24
PART FIVE: PERSON TYPES	27
ENNEAGRAM	28
THE NINE ENNEAGRAM TYPES	29
KEY RELATIONS WITH ENNEAGRAM TYPES	32
ENNEAGRAM FOR COMMUNICATING	33
ENNEAGRAM: A PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL TOOL	33
PART six: hypnosis	35
AUTO-hypnosis	42
WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR BRAIN DURING HYPNOSIS AND AUTO-HYPNOSIS?	45
PART seven: NLp & the various techniques applicable in different AREAS of life  	52
ANCHORING	53
METAPHORS	54
TIME LINE 	55
PHOBIA TECHNIQUES (cinema technique)	58
OCULAR DESENSITIZATION TECHNIQUE	58
ANXIETY TECHNIQUE	59
SHUFFLING	60
PART eight: R.E.I.	62
reasons for choosing  neuro-linguistic programming  &  OTHER new training methods	63
COMPROMISE ANALYSES, PSYCOSYNTHESIS & NLP	64
PROGRESSIVE CONCEPTS	66
EPISTEMOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND THE NEW HYPNO-RAPPORT CONCEPT  	66
REMARKS & CONSIDERATIONS	66
CONCLUSIONs	72

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This guide has come to light thanks to the work of some students from the ISI-CNV institute, directed by Dr. Marco Paret. It represents an introduction to the subject matter taught during the “basic practitioner” course.  We would like specially thank Erika Galati for her hard work in research and editing and Stefano Sesini for his well-organized and effective ideas.

INTRODUCTION

Have you ever wanted to get to know yourself better and to understand your potentiality?
Do you want to learn how to use communication in an efficient way?
Are you interested in creating satisfactory relationships?

If your answer is yes to any of the above, then you should know that various techniques exist that can help you on such a journey.


Enjoy your Reading! 

PART ONE: THE MAGIC WORLD OF NEURO-LINGUISTIC PROGRAMMING
	             
If you are reading this guide, it means that you can imagine yourself learning more about how to change your life and profession to the better.
The aim of this guide is to introduce to you a “know how” that can accompany you forever, providing you with a personal experience that helps strengthening both the body and the mind.  Everyone deserves the best; the amazing thing is that we can choose between really living or simply existing, allowing events to control us. The methods presented here have been introduced to help you become the person that you have always wanted to be, to achieve your results and to understand your most inner self.

“What I am today is indicative of what I have learnt, not what is my potential”.
(Virginia Satir)

Have you ever been so sure of yourself that you are happy simply because you feel you own your life and you are the author of the situations of  success that you have created around you?
This is a state of excellence that you can create yourself, even if you don’t yet know how.
What is taught in our school is a method that allows us to discover the structure behind this experience and to be able to recreate it.
It is possible to create a type of engineering of emotional states in such a way that the best possible state can be used at any given moment.
The aim of NLP and its associated methods is to provide you with the methodology, that puts into effect an astonishing process of growth of the possibilities within you.  Thus, you will present yourself in a new, efficient way when faced with daily life situations. You already possess these things.  You have to strengthen the courage and will to find trust in your feelings and internal being and learn how to follow them.
In such a prospective, to “really” live can be a choice and not a chance.
There are a large number of people that let there brain run at breakneck speed, wasting a lot of time experiencing things that they would prefer to avoid. It is important to realize that in this way the brain becomes a “room” so full of constant chattering that solutions have difficulty in entering due to lack of space.  


It is certainly useful to think about problems in order to solve them, but at the same time, it is also useful to start forming alternative strategies to be able to avoid them recurring.
 
“Difficulties are the fire that shapes our character”.
(Anthony Robbins)

The above phrase might mean that every time we find ourselves faced with a problem,  we can identify the most efficient strategy to confront the situation.
What we called “difficulty” before becomes an opportunity to shape and improve ourselves, an invitation to act.

How much ownership do we have of our thoughts?

Many people are prisoners of their own brain. It’s as if they were chained to the back seat of the bus with someone else at the wheel.  But who is this someone else? They are our unconscious reactions and plans. We are the ones who should be driving our “Personal Bus”.  If we don’t give some directions, we will face the risk that we will either travel randomly on our own behalf, or other people will find the way to direct it in our place. NLP and the other methods that we present to you are a unique opportunity to learn how to use the brain in a more functional way. Neuro-linguistic programming is nothing more than an educational process, therefore, the other methods can open up the way to contact with that which we realize to be a “natural state”.
Another interesting metaphor is the following:
Let us imagine now that our brain is a machine that is missing an off switch. If we do not give it something to do, it will continue to churn around and at the end, it gets bored!!!!!  How many of you are obsessed with particular thoughts or situations that you would like to resolve? Saying to yourselves, “I would like to be able to push them out of my head”.  Think about the extraordinary ability that you have to able to put them there in the first place!  Our point of view is that our brains are phenomenal. A brain is capable of doing amazing things and the problem is that it is often not what it cannot learn but the fact that it learns too well and too quickly.
For example, the risk of a single traumatic event is conditioning us for years; in other words, a single experience can leave an indelible trace.
In reality, nevertheless, you can go further than simply freeing yourself of these automatic conditionings. Thus, our abilities can be taught to move towards a state which brings us satisfaction.




OUR NEEDS AND WHERE TO FIND ADEQUATE RESOURCES

If we ask various people, we will discover that their different needs are:

the need to know themselves better and improve their relationship with themselves,
the need to open themselves to others and to be understood,
to have personal security,
to be positive,
to unblock themselves,
to have self-confidence,
etc…

It is important to realize that everything necessary to satisfy these needs to be successful people is INSIDE US! What we are saying here is that NLP 3 and the other methods are opportunities to gain the right methodology to bring everything out.
There’s only one person who can decide to start this journey:  you.
If you reflect on the phrase that “thought is the forefather of action”, you will arrive to the pleasant conclusion which says: “The quality of your life depends exclusively on you!”

“Life can be a daring adventure or nothing!!!!!” (Helen Keller)

















WHAT IS NLP?
                         

NLP is the first subject that we will face in this journey through human potentiality.
We can start by giving a technical explanation of neuro-linguistic programming. Above all, it is wise to say that NLP originated from the need to organize our thoughts, to discover and improve strategies that we use for work, to understand, to love, and most importantly, to live. If we become aware of our behavioral patterns and our unconscious plans, we will be in the position to modify them as we wish.  NLP supplies methods that show you the “how to” of transformation.

“The problem isn’t the problem, but the way in which we relate to it!”

Talking about NLP is like talking about creativity, learning a new way of facing life in all of its facets, becoming protagonists and creators. The term may give the impression of something cold and technical, however, everything that is behind these 3 simple initials give a significance and body to our existence. This can become one triumph after another of achievements, successes, authentic emotions and above all, it gives us the opportunity to live without the necessity of identifying ourselves with that which is outside of us and to which we don’t belong.
What we are proposing is a journey guided by our inner selves,  taking effective and maximum advantage of the potential that we possess,  living with joy, creativity, experience and knowledge.
NLP has been active in Italy since the beginning of the 80s; it has developed models and interventions used in companies, schools, training centers, and is also used by therapists.
In the last few years, it has experienced a growth in new models and paradigms, which brings us to the subject of NLP 3, signifying a consistent approach and evolving itself further than its predecessors in the research for new horizons.
Our institute is internationally recognized as being among those that facilitate such a venture.


What Does NLP Mean?

Literally, NLP stands for Neuro-linguistic Programming. By breaking the name up we can individualize 3 main components.

Neuro:  Our experience is filtered and processed by our central nervous system through the five senses.

Linguistic: This is the response to internally received or surfacing stimuli, therefore, starting the verbal and non-verbal relationships with the external.

Programming: It means the mental effort that starts within the individual at the moment in which he receives information.

It is, therefore, evident that by perceiving the world using the five senses, each person perceives and processes things in a different way. Once all the information is gathered, an internal procedure of mental processing is activated that is composed of mental representations of that which is perceived.
These mental representations influence values and convictions which, at the same time, trigger an internal state, structured by emotions, feelings and sensations that form mental programs (metaprograms) or strategies of people still under the form of mental representations.

Following this internal effort, each one of us responds to stimuli with his/ her own language which can be of two types: verbal and non-verbal.  Non-verbal language which is immediate, unconscious, automatic and symbolic is very important, and it often represents a way of achieving effective and real communications.


“The secret to having a successful life is inside of you!”









ATTITUDES TO INTEREST US IN NLP

When we approach NLP, we need to be pushed by a strong desire to participate in life and a curiosity towards exploring what is new, wishing to challenge ourselves in something unexplored in order to achieve and live our dreams.
How many of you have projects that are blocked by fear of failure, thinking of all the difficulties you might meet?
This behavior runs the risks of becoming counterproductive.......We are the first difficulty that we need to overcome.

You yourself need to focus on the results that you want to achieve and, moreover, dedicate all the energy you can give to your projects.  Many people think that NLP is simply a group of techniques; instead, it is the study and modeling of success strategies, animated by the winning positive thought of those that have achieved great goals in all aspects of their life.


WE ARE GREATER THAN WHAT WE THINK WE ARE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

An example of this greatness was the American psychiatrist Milton Erickson who, notwithstanding his handicap, managed to develop the small amount of sensibility he had in order to be able to have better contact with others. He became the best communicator of his time even though he had difficulty in speaking. He believed in life and in love, seen by him as a great value. United with passion and positivism, they are the best conditions to learn NPL in the best way possible.  Minds that work well are those that produce satisfactory results which are also visible to others!!!!

Milton Erickson was a hymn to life! To be able to overcome his difficulties he found himself faced with a challenge, and the result of his challenge was Neuro-linguistic programming.
In fact, the first NLP originated from the comprehension. It was carried out by a study group at the Santa Cruz University (California) and its strategies have been used by many successful communicators. The modeling of M. Erikson played a fundamental role in this development.

We are the ones who, being born and raised in a culture which considers life a “valley of tears”, think that the moment something good happens, it is down to good luck.  A dull life, without emotions or memorable events, is considered normal. Thus, with this widespread conviction, it becomes logical that existence continues in this “dullness”, because the brain is a learning machine and energy follows thought. In other words, we allow ourselves to be driven between euphoria and sadness when in reality we are the owners of the way we think.

Think positive and exciting thoughts if you want to have a happy and stimulating life!
Think negative thoughts and you will have a life full of troubles and regrets.

NLP is also an attitude, a means to positive living, optimistic, winning… etc. It teaches us how to change that which prevents us from advancing, transforming difficulties into opportunities of progression. It helps us to concentrate on objectives and to find the right way to achieve them.  It increases our self-confidence, turning internal images and sensations into something positive.  It unfurls with all its strength the potential that is in all of us but which we often ignore.  It helps to improve our relationships with others because it puts us in a condition to better observe and fully understand the person with which we are speaking.

Originated in America during the 70s, it provides us with a series of successful methods, enabling us to achieve our objectives in all those areas in which communication is fundamental:  sentimental, professional, sales, family harmony, etc. In the following years, other models were created that leaned towards the new direction of NLP 3.


PRODUCTIVE BELIEF

At a higher level of understanding of this subject, everyone can learn to give the right importance to their beliefs, however on this journey it is important to begin with the productive belief.
There are beliefs, which I want to bring to your attention:

THE MAIN PURPOSE IN LIFE IS NOT THE KNOWLEDGE OF ONESELF BUT ACTION!!!!!!!

MAN DOES NOT EQUAL WHAT S/HE HAS BUT EVERYTHING THAT S/HE DOES NOT YET HAVE BUT COULD HAVE!!!!!!!

THERE ARE NO FAILURES, ONLY RESULTS!!!!!!!

MAN IS AN ANTENNA THAT CAPTURES AND TRANSMITS; IT CAPTURES WHAT S/HE WANTS AND TRANSMITS WHO S/HE IS!!!!!!!!

MAN IS NOT A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCE, CIRCUMSTANCE IS A CREATURE OF MAN!!!!!!

THE ESSENCE OF MAN IS IN WHAT HE THINKS!!!!!!!

THE PILLARS OF SUCCESS ARE: MOTIVATION AND POSITIVE THOUGHT!!!!!!

ENTHUSIASM IS FUNDAMENTAL!!!!!!!!!


These beliefs can be useful in the beginning to model your development.  If you want to really achieve an aim, you will need, above all, to be sure that your motivation is strong enough to get you the wanted results.





“A strong enough reason will give you the necessary know how!!!!!!”

The basis of any success is strong motivation, without this push nothing will happen. Therefore, if you want to achieve your aim, you need to continually keep the fire of enthusiasm inside of you alive. Visualize yourself at the end of your goal!!!!!!
NLP does not teach anything, it enters into our emotional turmoil, into our sophisticated learning processes, in what we do to construct, destroy and transform.
It is unleashed and free from conditioning.
Some people can undertake these techniques as a habit of mind while others use them as instruments.

Try it; if it works,  keep it;  if it does no’t work,  throw it away. That would be an ATTITUDE!!!!!!
Provatela , se funziona tenetela , se non funziona buttatela via, e questo sarebbe un atteggiamento piennellistico!!!!!!!!

IT’S NOT IMPORTANT FROM WHERE YOU BEGIN. WHAT COUNTS IS WHERE YOU WANT TO ARRIVE.  THE ONLY HURDLE IN ACHIEVING THESE OBJECTIVES IS THE IDEA OF NOT BEING ABLE TO GET 
THERE.......YOUR MIND IS A DISASTER, CONCENTRATE ON WHAT YOU WANT AND YOU WILL GET IT!!!!!!!!

However, remember that it is not enough to think about what it is that you would like to obtain; you need to visualize, believe in yourself and above all, make sure that it really is what you want.  Avoid wasting energy passing from one thought to another, limiting yourself to dreaming about what will happen. We can live our dreams and this happens when we really concentrate on realizing our objectives or when we want to change certain aspects of our life which we do not like.

“Concentration is like a laser beam that can pass through any obstacle”.
(Anthony Robbins)

Many people do not manage to get what they want, simply because they do not focus their attention on a single aspect but grope around in their minds from one thought to another.

“There is only one part of the Universe that you can be sure to improve and that part is you!”  (Aldus Huxley)

Towards the end of this book some NLP techniques are reported for various aims.


NLP & NLP 3

NLP 3 represents a step up in knowledge from NPL.  Given its introductory character, this guide does not refer to any information regarding it.

If you would like further information, please visit our website www.neurolinguistic.com or call us on 00 39 348-2213449.




PART 2: INSTANT RAPPORT

“The ability to live magical relationships starts and finishes with you”. 
(W.W. Dyer)

Let us continue our wonderful journey into the human potential and take a look at a new technology called “instant rapport”.
A rapport is the process by which one constructs and maintains good interpersonal relations with reciprocal trust and agreement. At the same time, it is a moment of responsible and delicate consideration.  Every day we find ourselves in situations in which we establish a rapport with those around us.

Let us call “Instant Rapport” a technique that collects methods and useful approaches to create such a state of mind.  Instant Rapport also analyzes the reasons behind why a rapport is sometimes not easy. The answer is: beliefs and attitudes limit us.
The uses of “Instant Rapport” are also therapeutic, for many problems come from relationship problems.
In some cases, a rapport comes spontaneously and you create a harmony, a feeling that is almost mysterious.  Studies, conducted on the basis of video recordings, have shown that in reality, activated unconscious mechanisms have, at a sublimely level, created this immediate rapport.

For example, you have definitely once met a person and, not knowing anything about him, have made comments such as:  “He is nice; I can feel it in my bones” or “Even though I’ve just met him, we get on well”.
This happens when the rapport is triggered spontaneously, therefore, we have two people who unconsciously move their bodies in the same way, have the same gestures, walk alike, which in NLP terms takes the name of “Mirroring” a method that you use when you want to create a rapport.






Mirroring is one of the simplest methods and, at the same time, the starting point to putting ourselves on the same level as our interlocutor so as to enter into a positive relationship with him/ her.
Not everyone has a personality or mind open enough to immediately enter into harmony with an unknown, maybe because of past experiences or a present state of mind. Therefore, it sometimes takes a long time to accept a calm dialogue with another person. We can, therefore, decide to shorten this time using the mirroring technique and create a positive, emphatic rapport.

“It is important to enter into the other’s world, if we want to bring him into ours!!!!!”

When you establish that special understanding between two people, one of them will unconsciously and more easily respond in a positive way to the other’s stimulation.
By way of mirroring, we send back to the interlocutor, with our behavior, the same way of behaving that belongs to his/ her pattern of the world.
You become a mirror of the other, for example: legs crossed during a conversation, fingers of one hand entwined with the other. This is carried out until you arrive at the same tone of voice and level of breathing, which are two of the most powerful mirrors. It is enough to think of a baby that sleeps in the arms of its mother because her breathing makes it feel safe.  All this is perceived by the unconscious of our interlocutor as similarity and/ or affinity. It is amazing how “brick walls” can be brought down if we learn to listen, observe and feel others.

Mirroring means entering into harmony with respect and delicacy without invading or annoying.  
This method has the advantage of creating a rapport, without necessarily knowing the way which the individual lives his/ her life or sharing it.  To have this ability can, for example, positively affect a clinical interview, a school test, a sale or a simple discussion.

Some examples of things to mirror are:

Posture: Is it tense or relaxed? Is the body leaning forwards or backwards? How are the hands, arms and legs placed?
Breathing: Is his/ her breathing thoracic or abdominal? Is the rhythm slow, quick or calm? With what intensity is s/he breathing (Deep or shallow)?
Movements: What are his/ her gestures? What does s/he do with the hands? How does s/he move the head (for example: does he nod while speaking)?
Way of speaking:  Is the tone of voice deep or shrill?  What rhythm does his/ her voice have? Does he use slang? How quickly does he speak?


If you want to establish a long-term rapport, you need to identify the things that are important to a person, or his/ her values.
What you should keep in mind is to avoid discussions that could bring a difference in opinion before you have established a good rapport, otherwise, the rapport will inevitably break.  Another important thing is that at the time in which the verbal conversation takes over, you need to eliminate negative terms, better known as negative expressions, because we risk sending the opposite message to what we want to send (see the explanation in the communication rapport paragraph). This refers to a normal conversation and not during a therapy session.

Example: “I don’t want to lose you!”  Our brain decodes the message as, “I want to lose you!”

Once we have established a rapport with CNV, we should be careful about the language we use, which is normally very confused, in such a way to refine it and make it suitable to what we want to transmit.

The next level consists of trying to understand what type of internal change is needed to help maintain a “rapport” in a better way. In fact, we need to add an understanding of our interior reality to our understanding of exterior gestures so as to make the achievement of this easier.


                                                          




                             

PART THREE: NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION

What we mean by Non-Verbal Communication is gesturing, mimicking and all other human expressions that are abstracted from words. Along with hypnosis, the theory and practice of Non-Verbal Communication are probably among the most antique of the subjects discussed in this guide. At the same time, they are among those which modern research has the most information about.
The fundamental languages that allow us to relate to others are:

1. VERBAL LANGUAGE made up of words which serve to transmit information.
2. NON-VERBAL LANGUAGE with which we express our internal emotions, using gestures, behavior and silence.

Some studies have shown that in an interpersonal communication, the message is only transmitted using 7% of words and 38% from the tone of voice, while 55% is communicated using body language.
This differs when using the telephone, in fact in this case, that 38% becomes 100% of the communication.

Mirabeau wrote: “Words were given to man to hide his thoughts”.

Example: If we ask someone how they are and they reply “fine” followed by a clearing of the throat, it means that they are lying.

Body language tells the truth and often betrays what we say with words. It is the natural way of expressing our state of mind and it can bring us into direct contact with our deepest emotions:  fear, anxiety and joy, which are directly transmitted by our hands, legs and facial muscles.
Our mind can decide whether or not to express verbally these sensations or emotions, but we are aware that it is sometimes better to keep quiet. For example, we can say that we are not annoyed but a small, involuntary gesture by our body can give away what we are saying, though normally, nobody pays attention.




There are various ways of classifying different states of mind and, for practical purposes, it is useful to focalize on some in particular in order to understand our communication with another individual, whatever the relationship may be.  These are:

1. ATTENTION
2. INTEREST
3. PLEASURE
4. REFLECTIVENESS

What are the gestures that accompany each of these states?
Pleasure, for example, is perceived by way of specific gestures.  Remember that CNV is sensorially demonstrated and it is so inherent in man that it can’t be conditioned in anyway.

SOME NON-VERBAL SIGNS

The attention that a person shows during listening to someone else is shown by the body posture. For example, leaning the chest forward is a sign of attention.

Pleasure is connected to the lips and to the so-called analogical kisses.  Biting the lips means: “I would like to but I can’t”

The tongue is an indicator of strong pleasure towards the person, the subject being discussed, or the situation.

Playing around  with a ring, a bracelet,… etc., indicates interest.

Running fingers through the hair is connected to the desire to be involved.

Interest is connected to olfaction except when you rub under the nostrils with a finger.

Attention is connected to the leaning forward of the chest.

Reflection is an internal dialogue and it manifests itself by tiny movements of the circular kind, like when you touch your ear.  When you touch your chin you are being even more reflective.





EMOTIONAL UNBURDENING

Emotional unburdening can be highlighted by way of three elements:

1. CRYING OR LAUGHING, which reduces tension.
2. SWALLOWING which is tied to emotional states, a sign of something you like that you cannot have but would like to have.
3. THROAT CLEARING more common among smokers, very useful in therapy.  One is able to extrapolate a person’s doubts. (For example: you ask a question to the interlocutor and after they have replied they clear their throat). 

VALUES

Our behavior is tied to our values.
Thanks to the observation of their emotional replies, Non-Verbal Communication allows us to see when we are getting close to a person’s most important value. 
There are specific questions that allow us to identify (the technical term is “elicit”) values.
Both in therapy and in disputes, when we want to understand a person in order to have a clearer idea, we need to know what he focuses on, what motivates him, what is in his head at the moment.

Questions to ask could be:

1. What do you focus on?
2. What motivates you?
3. What are you mainly doing?
4. Where do you think you will be in the future? (This question is useful in understanding the degree of self-confidence, decisions and attitudes).
5. What is important to you? (A question that allows us to understand a person’s values)
6. What exactly does that mean?

COMMUNICATION STYLES

The signs just highlighted are then connected to a specific “communication style”. Hand movements can be of great help in this area.
While the person is talking or answering our questions, if we are focused and we pay attention to hand gestures, we can understand more.

A famous family therapist, Virginia Satir, has identified three types of persons:




1. THE BLAMER:  When adopting this style, the person is very active, tends to impose himself/ herself, focalizes on himself/ herself, decisive, determined, and his her hand movements are cutting or finger-pointing. S/he uses imperatives or generalizations.


2. THE COMPUTER:  Hand movements are rotatory and reflexive. While speaking, s/he enumerations like: “Given that” and “because”. The reasoning is logical, for s/he wants to achieve something by demonstrating. The focus is on the subject and there is an absence of “me” and “you”.
	


3. PLACATOR: when adopting this style, the person tries to make himself/ herself nice. Communicating in an emotional way, placating and making himself/ herself compliant, the reasoning is, consequently, emotional. This type of person tends to focus on the other and is more passive than reactive. Hand movements are open or in a triangle position. 






PART FOUR: REPRESENTATIONAL OR SENSORIAL SYSTEMS

From the beginning of time, all traditions have leaned towards the belief that perception of reality is a product of the senses.  In recent times, NLP and other methods have thrown new light on what this really means.  We do not directly perceive reality: we see (and feel, … etc) what our minds perceive of reality.

What we distinguish as reality, we translate into internal representations that have an influence on our behavior and, therefore, condition it.
Behavior strategies are created on the basis of the information we receive from our surroundings through our sensory channels.  A subjective behavior model is the “world map that isn’t the world”.  Representational systems are the sensorial formalities through which individual experience is given meaning. Information is collected through all sensorial channels, but is elaborated through a few favored ones following a given strategy.  Every human being depicts the world, favoring at all times one of three channels (visual; auditory; coenaesthesis) from which s/he derives his/ her representational system from primary reality.  The other two intervene to a lesser degree; in fact, they are defined as secondary representational systems.
For example, one person may pay more attention to appearance rather than consistency, another to sound, … etc
It can be useful to understand and tune into others’ strategies to create a better rapport.


VISUAL (V) are recognized by their straight posture, the positioning of their eyes, mainly upwards or forwards, their deep breathing, acute voice, short phrases and less literal sentences; they also tend to give a lot of importance to esthetic appearance.
 
AUDITORY (A) move their eyes from side to side during a conversation. Their breathing is more thoracic, they learn by listening and, with respect to the visual, have better reflective ability. Their voices are melodic and they narrate for a longer time.  One of the phrases they use is, “It sounds good”.


COENAESTHESIS (K) breath abdominally, love physical contact and everything that has to do with touch, taste and smell. They have slow gestures, less consideration towards the external appearance of things compared to the subject matter, and memorize by practice.  Their voice is deep and they often do not speak much. They focus on the other!

FURTHER INFORMATION ON REPRESENTATIONAL TYPES

According to the representational channel, the used content also differs:

THINGS & PLACES normally indicate a visual preference and language is descriptive.
INFORMATION indicates an auditory preference, in other words, things that can be told.
ACTIVITY & PEOPLE indicate a coeneasthesis preference (for example: while skiing I felt a feeling of well-being).

RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN COMMUNICATION STYLES AND SENSORIAL CHANNELS


In another chapter we will analyze different communication styles.
A correlation between communication styles and sensorial systems was ascertained.
In particular:


THE BLAMER IS VISUAL;
THE COMPUTER IS AUDITORY; and
THE PLACATOR IS COENEATHESIS.

We can therefore reaffirm the concept that if we want to establish a rapport, we need to understand our interlocutor’s strategy and use it ourselves.  However, apart from this, it is important not to leave out any channel.  If instead, we discuss a person that does not use one of three channels, we are talking about an incomplete person.  The three channels are:

ACTION (VISUAL)
INTELLECT (AUDITORY)
EMOTION (COENEATHESIS)

HOWEVER, THEY ALL NEED TO BE USED SHOWING A PREFERENCE FOR ONE OR TWO OF THEM.

Further definitions
We can define: 
INCOMPLETE is someone who does not use the third channel
COMPLETE is someone who uses all three channels even if infrequently.  We can consider that person an intermediate stage.
ESSENCE is when someone combines all three channels. They can choose all of them, or more correctly they can choose any strategy.  (For example: the condition of a baby, who can do everything, is essence).  Therefore, that person can use the right and left hemispheres (creativity and logic) in equal measures.

Everything you have read until now serves at a personal level, helping you to communicate better. Moreover, it is a very efficient therapy tool, for it allows us to have a picture of the person who needs his/ her problems resolved.
Subsequently, when analyzing the channel used most frequently and that used less frequently, you can open the way to a new equilibrium.

PART FIVE: PERSON TYPES



Obviously, the more we delve into the communication argument, the more we learn about the different methods available for understanding what psychological type we have in front of us.  Very useful in this procedure is the ENNEAGRAM.
The enneagram in some schools of thought is seen as a tool for spiritual growth, in others, it is seen under a psychological profile.
We follow a third idea; unlike the traditional methods, our emphasis falls on communication.  For this reason we refer to the “Communicational Enneagram”.




                                                       


ENNEAGRAM

“Enneagrams are the geometry of the soul, 
which reveal our character”
(Helen Palmer)

Have you ever wanted to know what your interlocutor thinks about?
The enneagram is a specific description, concise and precise, of nine personality profiles in which we can all recognize ourselves.  It is an excellent tool to help us understand ourselves in a deeper way, to improve our understanding of others, to highlight positive sides in ourselves and in others, to soften negative ones, and to be able to comprehend similarity and dislikes.
Apart from this description, the enneagram also identifies personal growth for us: to improve ourselves, develop thoughts, emotions, and unexpressed potentiality.  The enneagram originated as a tool in the East, becoming widespread in the West later.  The name comes from the Greek word ennea, which means nine and gramma which stands for sign.
Our school has studied this original Arabic method and we can very well call ourselves the “founding school” regarding it, with particular reference to the subject of “communicational”, for no one else has examined it in such depth.
 
Its use is both personal and professional.  In a personal sphere, it is used to examine self-knowledge, developing a much more balanced personality, as well as the ability to better communicate with the people who count in our lives.
On a professional level, however, it is very efficient because it enables us to understand our interlocutor better, in both therapy sessions and at work meetings.
Knowing the different types is interesting, for once we have understood the psychology of who we have in front of us, we can behave accordingly, therefore, establishing an instant rapport.

To know yourself and more, the enneagram is not only a system for entering into an emphatic rapport, it is a way of “knowing yourself in a dynamic way!” 
It provides an evolutionary guide, solid and efficient; it invites you to experiment with new and powerful strategies, to develop with awareness and resolve compulsions.


“Identifying yourself in a personality is only the first step to a healthy and balanced growth”.

Thanks to the integration with neuro-linguistic programming techniques, the potential of this system is increased to the extent that it makes the individualization of psychological type possible in a few minutes.


                            

THE NINE ENNEAGRAM TYPES


1. REFORMER
The most important value for these people is to “avoid error” and to achieve perfection!  They are critical towards themselves and others; they feel ethically superior.  They make great use of the expressions like “you have to” and “need to”. Developed type one can be very astute or have “flair” and are moral heroes. They appreciate coherence, strive for things they can never have. They want perfection so much that they remain in a constant state of compulsion.
Their representational channel is VISUAL AUDITORY.
Key motivation: PERFECTION


2. THE HELPER
Important values to those people are helping and asking for affection and approval; they want to gain love and recognition by making themselves indispensable. Their aim is to satisfy the other’s needs. Manipulative and in possession of many sides, they show a different self to each person according to the situation. They are, moreover, aggressive and seductive.  Developed type two know how to offer sincere support and help.
Their representational channel is COENEASTHESIS VISUAL
Key Motivation: TO HELP
3. THE ACHIEVER
These are the persons who steer others. Their password is “create success”. They want to be loved through facts and results. They are very competitive, obsessed by their own image as winners and of their corresponding social position. As masters of appearance, they appear more productive than they actually are.  Developed type three can be efficient bosses; they have good planning ability, they are capable promoters, and they carry their team to victory! The compulsion to “do” is developed in them.
Their representational channel is VISUAL COENEASTHESIS. 
Key Motivation: TO DO BY DEMONSTRATION


4. THE INDIVIDUALIST
Thinking about love and emotions, they are attracted to the unachievable; their ideal is never “the here and now”. They are tragic and melancholic, artistic temperament and sensitive; they get stuck on long-distance love and on the loss of a friend.  Developed type four live their lives creatively and they know how to help others in their suffering.  They are devoted to beauty and passion, birth, sex, intensity, and death.  Sometimes they seek out sufferance to better analyze it. They are very analytic and it is difficult for them to feel guilty.
Their representation channel is COENEASTHESIS AUTIORY.
Key Motivation: DON’T BE SUPERFICIAL; BE DEEP


5. THE INVESTIGATOR
They are researchers, collecting information; “They stay in their ivory tower”. Their investment is in knowledge; in fact the motto that best describes them is “take care of the details”.  They maintain emotional distance from others, protect their privacy, and do not allow themselves to get involved. They subdivide duties into compartments, being detached from people, feelings and things.  Developed type five can cover decisional positions very well and become intellectuals.
Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS.
Key Motivations: MULTI-KNOWLEDGED; WANT TO KNOW EVERYTHING; KNOWLEDGE IS POWER!











6. THE LOYALIST
They want to avoid danger and be influenced, reason on the intentions of others, and are critical from an intellectual point of view.  They are timid, indecisive, procrastinator, for to them, thought substitutes action. They are frightened to act because exposing themselves may mean being attacked.
They support lost causes and always put themselves in second place. The phobic type six are insecure; they feel persecuted and give in if they feel their backs are against the wall.  The contra-phobic feel as if they constantly have their backs against the wall and react to fear with aggression.
Developed type six are excellent team players, loyal soldiers and friends. They dedicate themselves to a cause in the same way others do for personal profit. 
Their representational channel is AUDITORY VISUAL.
They have a fear of being cheated by human matters!
Key Motivation: skepticism


7. THE ENTHUSIAST
They are pleasure seekers, like the eternal child who approaches life in an amateurish way. They tend to go for brief relationships, superficiality, adventure and hedonism. They seldom make an effort; they want to keep all options open.  Their main feature is that they are always in a good mood, generally happy and are good company.  They start things but do not finish them.  Developed type seven are excellent theorists, are very succinct and embody the “renaissance” man.  They live very much in the present, in fact, they believe in the motto “carpe diem”.
Their representational channel is VISUAL COENEASTHESIS.
Key Motivation ACT and LIVE!


8. THE CHALLENGER
They believe fundamentally in struggle, therefore, lawyers come under type eight. Their motto is “dominate or be dominated”, being very protective, attacking to defend themselves and their friends.  Being combatitive, openly showing anger and strength, they have a great respect for opponents who confront them sincerely. They have contact through sex and direct confrontation. They live excessively: too much of everything, late nights, voice too loud …etc.  Developed type eight make excellent heads, for example, politicians.
Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS.
Key Motivation REBEL

9. THE PEACEMAKER
They tend to sacrifice themselves to keep the peace, their motto is “It’s the taking part that counts not the winning”. They tend towards the anonymous, for they are not exhibitionists. In fact, they prefer anonymous situations. Being obsessively ambiguous, they always consider all points of view and substitute their own needs with those of the others.  They tend to poison themselves with food, drink and television.  They understand others’ needs before their own, tend to withdraw, are never sure if they want to stay in one place or not, or take part in the group or not. They are always willing, expressing their anger in indirect ways.  Developed type nine make excellent advisers, peacekeepers and negotiators.  They work well inside an organization.  As they don’t want earthly love, they become hyper-spiritual and desire harmony to avoid taking positions.  They have a preference for fickle positions.
Their representational channel is COENEASTHESIS AUDITORY.
Key Motivation: SEEK HARMONY







KEY RELATIONS WITH ENNEAGRAM TYPES

TYPE 1 (REFORMER)

I’m OK if I’m perfect or strive for perfection!
You’re OK if you are perfect or strive for perfection!

TYPE 2 (HELPER)

Let me help.
Acknowledge them.

TYPE 3 (ACHIEVER)

Think positive!
I’m OK if I think positive. 
You’re OK if you think positive.

TYPE 4 (INDIVIDUALIST)

I’m suffering therefore I exist!
I’m OK if I’m suffering emotionally.
You’re OK if you are suffering emotionally.

TYPE 5 (INVESTIGATOR)

I’m OK if I have information.
You’re OK if you don’t invade me.

TYPE 6 (LOYALIST)

Recognize their abilities.
Look for their good points.
They aren’t bad but attack out of fear.




TIPO 7 (ENTHUSIAST)

Fill me up!!!!!
I want to live positive emotional states!
Give me new possibilities.
Fear remaining stuck.

TYPE 8 (CHALLENGER)

Give them a responsibility.


TYPE 9 (PEACEMAKER)

Let me take part!!!!!!!!!!!!!

As well as being able to recognize ourselves in one of the nine different enneagram types, the enneagram can also be used as a communication tool.

ENNEAGRAM FOR COMMUNICATING

The first thing we should do is OBSERVE our interlocutor in all of his/ her behaviors to be able to identify the enneagram type s/he belongs to.  This allows us to understand the reasons behind his/ her behavior and eventual difficulties that we may meet, allowing us to pull out his/ her values. Thus, we can enter into a rapport without risk of doing or saying anything that makes us go on a “collision course”.
It is, therefore, evident that the enneagram can be used both on personal and professional levels.

ENNEAGRAM: A PROFESSIONAL & 
PERSONAL TOOL

On a personal level it gives us the possibility of extending self-knowledge and favoring the development of a balanced personality. It helps us to communicate better with the people that are important in our lives, in work, in relationships… etc. 

On a professional level, the enneagram is useful to therapists, consultants and also to those in a business field, like managers, because it completes knowledge, allowing you to understand the people with whom you have a relationship in a quicker and deeper way and to react while keeping in mind what is most important.
For example, if you are a business man and you use the enneagram correctly, you can understand more about the abilities of your team members, instilling in them a team spirit which is fundamental to achieve success.  In all cases, the enneagram is more than a simple method to understand ourselves and others, it is open to the past and the future at the same time. That is why when we talk about the enneagram we can immediately associate it as a:


TOOL FOR UNDERSTANDING SELF;
TOOL FOR PREDICTING;
TOOL FOR DEVELOPMENT; and
TOOL FOR COMMUNICATING.


Even if we have divided psychological typology into nine categories, it is important to point out that we have all of them present in us, although we have a preference for certain types, or we use the type that we need at each situation. Psychiatric pathologies are psychological enneagram types taken to the extreme or can be at rest, hence, empty.  For example, if a personality is dominated by the compulsions of the type to which it belongs, we refer to “false personality” or “destructive self”.
The enneagram is a new answer to the research of understanding ourselves and others, communication, and relationships between human beings.

“He that has made a door and a lock has also made a key” (Chabreuil)





Hypnosis in NLP is a developed ability to communicate which allows us to establish excellent relations with others, and grow towards autonomy, freedom and the appreciation of life in all of its glory. We can control our brain together with its functioning in its relationship with ourselves and we can make it carry out the instructions we give it.  For example, if we speak angrily, the brain selects anger and arranges an adequate state of mind to the thoughts activated.  On the other hand, if we express ourselves with enthusiasm, the brain will process this type of response and produces a happy state of mind.

“Our brain is a learning machine and we are its programmers!!!!!!”

Passing from one state of mind to another is an automatic ability. This is demonstrable when we watch two lovers together:  both of them depend on smiles and words of love in order to feel being in hell or heaven.  In the mysterious world of emotions, that many of us refuse, escape from or do not understand, there are deep mechanisms by which people lose responsibility for their actions that are automatic, so that they suffer or enjoy the results of their behaviour without realizing, until they get to the point where, if they are suffering, they attach the blame to somebody else according to their own strategies.

Hypnosis is, therefore, a natural state that Man finds himself involved with in the act of living; s/he is able to bring it on or induce it in others, or s/he may experience it without knowing that it is called hypnosis.  All kinds of efficient communication are hypnosis. It is a road that takes us to our mind, a fast path, sometimes rapid and sometimes steep.  Hypnosis is the deep communication that you establish between two individuals. A hypnotist is a type of pilot who is able to alter a collision course in any of his passengers’ needs. The hypnotized individual is someone who allows himself to be hypnotized. In this state of consent, the left hemisphere becomes “surrounded” and in such a case, suggestions can be uncritically accepted by the subject and, consequently, translated into concrete actions. In a state of hypnosis, the subject’s will is not eliminated, it is as if the subject concedes a privileged audience to the hypnotist, lending him/ her maximum attention to what is being proposed, totally conserving his freedom to do or not do whatever is being suggested to him/ her. It is in fact false, as well as never being scientifically proven, that through hypnosis you can make someone commit acts against their will. Even if the hypnotist tries, the subject will not carry out the order given or might even decide to come out of the hypnotic trance, refusing to continue.  Hypnotism, even if triggered by another person, is essentially “autogenous” in the sense that it uses an absolutely natural functioning process of our psyche.


It may seem ridiculous to think that- if up until now we were convinced that life was a succession of happenings- that we need to prepare ourselves to live. Now we can see things from another prospective and say that:

Life changes at the moment in which we change and we can consider ourselves as protagonists of our life without having to content ourselves with the walk-on parts or be forced to live by life.  Perhaps arriving at the foot of the page and writing the words “The End” makes us realize that what we see behind us is not our story, what we would have wanted, and regret not having obtained what it was that we wanted because we have been the obstacle.

“Life is something that happens to us while we are busy doing other things”. (Anthony De Mello)

“Whatever you want to do, or dream of, start it, 
audacity has talent, power and magic” (Goethe)
 



           
EXAMPLES OF HYPNOTIC MODELS AND METHODS – INTRODUCTION TO HYPNOTIC COMMUNICATION




Negative orders

One of the simplest hypnotic communication models is “negative orders”

For example: If I say to you, “don’t think about summer”, you will automatically be forced to think about it in order to understand my statement.

Starting with a negation means that the listener does not sense any pressure to act.  We often use this negative order model without knowing and we get an undesired reaction.

For example: Don’t worry.....Don’t be jealous.......Nothing bad is going to happen.

Whoever is listening, in some way, has to interpret the undesired behaviour to be able to understand what has been said to him, and this increases the possibility of this same behaviour happening.  Without knowing it, these people hypnotize the subject and end up having undesirable reactions. The same model may be used to get more useful reactions from people, which are found in a trance-like state or not.

For example: Don’t be curious to know what I feel about you!

Hypnosis can be used both in personal or professional scopes, in fact, it is useful for sorting out problems or eliminating all limits that we program in ourselves. Hypnotism is, therefore, used to stop smoking, lose weight, heal fears, get rid off phobias… etc.  Additionally, it may be used in a more creative way, to continually grow your abilities and your choices in life.  It helps you to learn how to improve what you already do well.  Hypnosis is a group of instruments that help us to improve the quality of our life and the relationship that we have with ourselves. The aim is to be able to create an internal situation in which the subject can access transformation processes.

If you have a collection of mechanical tools, it doesn’t mean that you are capable of fixing a car!

The use of a series of Hypnotic Communication Models can pave the way to creating a:

HYPNOTIC INDUCTION

What I am about to illustrate is a simple hypnotic induction based on the Erickson model that you can carry out on another person to create a state of profound relaxation.
      
HYPNOTIC INDUCTION BASED ON PACE AND LEADING

Before starting, remember to physically pace the subject to establish a condition of trust or in other words rapport.
Above all, imitate respiration.
Speak while the subject is exhaling.
Place yourself in front of him to be able to better observe his reactions.

And now while you are sitting down,
and you are in front of me,
and you can listen to my words,
and you can hear noises that come from outside,
I don’t know if you realize....... (pause) that something inside of you is changing.
And while something inside you is changing,
you can feel the temperature of the room,
and the sensation of your feet touching the ground,
I don’t know if you realize that your breathing is becoming calmer,
and with every breath you are relaxing even more

And while you can relax,
and while you can feel the sensation of your closed eyes,
I ask myself if you realize you can cradle yourself in a feeling of relaxation.
And you can imagine being even more relaxed,
and while you can feel the weight of your body,
you can imagine how to enter in to a peaceful cloud,
and you can feel that some parts of your body are relaxed and others can be even more relaxed,
and you can let yourself be cradled in this feeling,
and let yourself slide deeper into a feeling of sleepiness,
I don’t know if you realize you can be even calmer than you think you can be.
You can feel the air that passes through your nostrils,
you can feel the touch of your clothes against your skin,
and go further, my voice will accompany you.

At this point, the subject is in a light, “trance-like” state; we can continue with the stairway suggestion to make him go into a deeper state of relaxation.

                                                        “THE STAIRWAY”

And while you relax, you can imagine being at the top of a magnificent stairway,
and while you are at the top of this stairway, I’ll count from ten down to one and with every number you can imagine going down towards the bottom.
Ten, at the top of the stairs ready to go down into a  deeper sleep for ever.
Nine, another step takes you further down, as if in a cloud of peace, a sweet and relaxing cloud.
Eight takes you even more towards the bottom, further down, in an ever deepening feeling, falling even more asleep.
Seven, seven is your relaxing number; and every time you hear it you will relax even more.
Six, another step, another step downwards, towards the bottom.
Five, almost completely asleep, cradled in a feeling of deep peace
Four, another relaxing step; when we get to the bottom of the staircase you will be completely asleep.
Three, let yourself be cradled by your feelings, sinking even further. 
Two, a step away from being completely asleep, a more pleasing feeling forever.
One, completely asleep, in a feeling of complete wellness.
Zero, further down than the bottom, calm, asleep and at peace with yourself.
Now... you feel emotionally, spiritually, and intellectually well.
Now I’ll count from 3 to 1 and when you awake you will feel relaxed and well.
3 you feel well 
2 you have a feeling of happiness.
1 Open your eyes and smile!

While carrying out a hypnotic induction, there are some indicators that allow us to understand if the subject is in a “trance-like” state:
Decrease in muscle tone;
Deeper breathing;
Involuntary movement of the pupils;
Increase in hand sweating; and
Altering of facial symmetry.

Obviously, it should be said that this type of induction is used to deeply relax the subject and to make him/ her enter into a state of peace and well-being before starting with other hypnotic techniques, used for example to:
Create a new behavioural model;
Alter confirmed habits;
Develop energy;
…etc.


Hypnotic techniques are an amplification of our desires!


                                              


AUTO HYPNOSIS

SELF-HYPNOSIS is a very efficient technique; it can be applied to resolve disturbances that are part of everyday life such as: anxiety, tension, stress, bad habits… etc.
As well as resolving problems, it is useful for increasing our ability and it can help us to follow particular objectives.

For example, to understand how efficient SELF-HYPNOSIS can be, just think that it has been established that the most famous geniuses in history, like Einstein, Edison… etc, owe their discoveries to their ability to put themselves, unknowingly, in a state of SELF-HYPNOSIS, using the inexhaustible possibilities of the subconscious, considered the stem of discovery, invention and success.

SELF-HYPNOSIS allows you to focus your attention on what you desire, for example to be calm, serene, concentrated, and attent, with the mind empty or totally occupied in an activity chosen by us.  All this happens in a condition of absolute freedom from external influences and insignificant thoughts.  With this method, we can face exams with security, develop or abandon certain habits… etc.

“The only thing that imprisons you is your mind;
the only thing that can free you is your mind!” (Sai Baba)

There are two types of SELF-HYPNOSIS: western and eastern. The basic problem with SELF-HYPNOSIS is learning it correctly.  Our school has created an educational technique that allows us to learn SELF-HYPNOSIS, in its two forms, in a very short time.













                            WESTERN SELF-HYPNOSIS

WESTERN SELF-HYPNOSIS MAINLY USES THE POWER OF SPEECH, AND NORMALLY DEMANDS THE USE OF THE CLASSIC HYPNOTIC TRANCE.


It is important to have a well-formed objective.  To be able to achieve it, you need to divide it into pieces, sensitizing it and focusing bit by bit.

The objective needs to be:

P positive
E emotional, i.e. find motivational pleasure
P present (only speak in the present, never in the past)
S sensory (what you feel, see… etc. when you reach the objective)
I imaginative (create a clear image of what you want to achieve)


S simple
M measurable
A attainable
R reasonable
T time


SELF-HYPNOSIS is a condition of the mind that allows us to control our emotions, behaviour and mental processes. It gives us the ability to focus our attention on what it is that we desire, for example, how to be concentrated, calm… etc.

“Purify your thoughts and make your perception of the world clearer” (Givauden)

In reality, with hypnosis, you create a conscious SELF-HYPNOSIS externally led. Now we are going to talk about creating the same condition on ourselves. When we speak about SELF-HYPNOSIS, we might as well talk about creative imagination and, until we can access this mental state, it is necessary to be in a deeply relaxed position. This position allows us to be receptive towards spontaneous images which come and go without rule. The more we are relaxed, the more we are open and sensitive to what fantasy is showing us.  Autosuggestion is the preferred ground of SELF-HYPNOSIS, as suggestion is the preferred ground of hypnosis.  When an image strikes the unconscious, conscious activity tends to cancel it and it is exactly at this moment that fantasy, and the ability to let it affect us, intensifies; thus, attention, judgment and reason cease to be on guard.  Therefore, all techniques using suggestion and autosuggestion are based on distracting conscious attention, in both direct and indirect ways, to transmit certain sensations and images of the unconscious.  Before we talk about hypnosis, we are going to enter more deeply into the subject of SELF-HYPNOSIS. I would also like to add something else to let you understand what are, in reality, auto-hypnotic and hypnotic techniques, discrediting the idea that they are something unknown or inexplicable (even if there are obviously further things to know about them more I can write in this introduction).
































WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR BRAIN DURING HYPNOSIS AND SELF-HYPNOSIS?

There are many theories on hypnotic phenomenon; the following is a very interesting one:
We know that our brain is divided into two parts that are called hemispheres; each one has a particular role to play.  The right hemisphere is the creative one, that of imaginative thought where dreams are developed and musical information is found.  Think about musicians and painters, they are all people who have a more developed right hemisphere.
The left hemisphere is specialized in rational thought, in logic and in language. These two parts of the brain communicate with each other via the corpus callosum, which mediates messages. SELF-HYPNOSIS and hypnosis, do nothing other than allow the right hemisphere to activate itself.  We obviously use the left hemisphere more for everyday tasks and this is an obstacle to the activation of the right one, for the former evaluates and examines information that arrives via our senses, meaning images, sounds and sensations. To reach the right hemisphere, we need to distract the left using verbal commands or other techniques until whatever flows from the right hemisphere is not subjected to judgment.  In hypnosis induced by others, the left hemisphere is deactivated by the hypnotist through the use of specific techniques. In SELF-HYPNOSIS, we are responsible for this operation. As you would have realized, we remain the protagonists in this experience, whether we are induced or there is auto-inducement. It is here that the importance of visualization arises:

Create a clear image of the things that you want and before anything else, instill it with emotions. Just think that inventors are able to see the object they are inventing before they have even put together the parts.
“Imagination is more important than knowledge” (Einstein)

“The mind is comparable to a butterfly that takes on the colour of the leaf on which it is resting...you become what you envisage”. (Gustave Flaubert)

Above all, it is important to learn how to relax and concentrate and not to allow ourselves to be distracted, focusing our attention inside ourselves.  At the beginning, this may seem difficult but then you will see unexpected results. You will feel a sensation of order in your mind and the ability to manage your thoughts without them managing you.  Your mind will become your kingdom and you will be the king.

THINK ABOUT A LAKE: when the surface is calm it’s easy to see the bottom. However, when the lake is choppy with waves you cannot see anything. The same thing happens to the mind:  it can only read inside you when it is calm!

AN AUTOSUGGESTIVE EXCERCISE AFTER SELF HYPNOSIS HAS BEEN ACTIVATED

Relax.
Identify something that you would like to obtain, create or achieve;  it can be a job, an internal change, improved health or an approved appearance.  To start with, choose an objective that is easy to believe in.
Create a mental image, think about the present, as if it already exists, in exactly the way you want it. Place yourself in the exact situation which you desire. Enrich your mental image with specific emotions, making it as real as possible.
Give positive energy to the objective; make positive assertions to yourself, saying that your objective exists. This is useful in that to affirm something means to halt any doubts or mistrusts you may have.
Create inside yourself the feeling that what you want is real and can be achieved just by wanting it.
A desire or a situation to be achieved can come back to you even during different times of the day; this means that the condition becomes part of your life.

“Fantasy is your power”.



RULES FOR COMMUNICATING WITH YOUR 
UNCONSCIOUS MIND


You should keep in mind that you are communicating with your unconscious mind, therefore, it is necessary to respect the rules, until our mind listens and understands what we want.

USE THE PRESENT
When you think about the result, think of it as already accomplished.  The unconscious mind is an existential mind and works in the “moment”, for the future does not exist for it.

BE POSITIVE
Eliminate all negative words, for to transmit negation of something within communication means to transmit badly. For your subconscious “no” and “not” are neutral words. Normally, we are used to talking about what we want, eliminating without realising the reinforcement of the problem.  Say where you want to go and not where you want to leave.

BE SIMPLE
Choose a specific area where you can put the improvement into effect. 

BE DETAILED
Analyse your objective and structure your suggestion in such a way as to include every detail of your new behaviour in a positive plan. For example, if you are scared to speak in public, the suggestion would be, “I like speaking to people”.

BE SIMPLE
Speak to your subconscious as if it were a child; avoid “literary expressions”.  Simple words have more impact.

USE EMOTIONAL WORDS
You need to ascertain that, at the moment of speaking, your assertions are generating sensations. The subconscious is your emotional mind.

CONCENTRATE ON ACTION
Your suggestions need to describe your actions, not your abilities.



BE PRECISE
Say exactly what it is that you want. If the result is measurable, for example your weight, be precise.

BE REALISTIC
Avoid suggesting perfection.

PERSONALISE
Suggestions are structured to change yourself and your actions, not others.


“It is possible to change, just decide what type of person you want to be”. (Skipp Ross)

Self-hypnosis is therefore an ideal technique both for creating new behaviours, altering others, managing problems like anxiety, tension and stress, or freeing yourself from bad habits.

                              
INDIAN SELF HYPNOSIS

A characteristic of Indian self-hypnosis is that it gives a lot of importance to visualisation and projection.


                              Indian self-hypnosis model

Visualisation of the desired scene.
Bring the scene towards the heart and load it with emotions.
Bring the scene towards the belly button, the centre of your being.
Start breathing, 6 3 6, until you feel like energy itself.
Visualise a light at the root of your nose under closed eyelids.
Send light to the scene.
Take a deep breath, sending the scene outside and feeling that it is becoming real.
Say, “thank you”.

Breathing 6 3 6

The time for each breath that you need to take is 6 units, the time to hold your breath is 3 units and the time to breathe out is 6 units.

All this is just a little hint of what is the magical world of hypnosis and self- hypnosis, a magic that we can bring into our life and make it our magic reality!!!!

“The spirit is life 
  the mind is what builds it 
  reality is the result!”
 (Edgar Cayce)



THE CONNECTION BETWEEN AUTOGENOUS TRAINING AND SELF HYPNOSIS

Both of the above mentioned techniques favor the creation of a condition of a psychophysical well-being. With the term autogenous training, J.H. Schults defined a method of self-extension that allowed the altering of mental and somatic situations.  Training means the gradual learning of a series of passive, mental concentration exercises. Autogenous means something that is generated by the self and it is this characteristic that differentiates this method from those of hypnotic and self-hypnotic techniques, for in these methods mental and somatic modifications are actively induced.  It is a scientific method of autosuggestion, a type of Western yoga that produces a general feeling of relaxation that helps to re-charge and restore body and mind. It has the scope of achieving a hypnotic state, therefore, under this aspect it can be seen as a self- hypnosis method.

“Autogenous training is the art of self discovery”. 


 THE APPLICATION OF AUTOGENOUS TRAINING       


As a simple, deep relaxation exercise,
In psychotherapy,
In sports, and 
In study.


Often, we hear phrases like, “With all this stress and anxiety for the things I’ve got to finish, I’ll get an ulcer!”
We try to resolve our problems but are swamped by them. The answer distances itself and we remain trapped in a situation of malaise, and then we somatically try to face them.  Dumping our tensions on the somatic tract and, over time, one of our organs can lead us to the point of becoming ill (target organ). An accumulation of particularly stressful events, and above all, the inability of the individual to manage the resulting emotions in an adequate way, can make the individual more susceptible to illness. As NLP also confirms, it is not the events in themselves that bring on psychosomatic illness or anxiety, but the way in which we live them and react to them.  Before going ahead with the various techniques, it is advisable to highlight the importance of the psychophysical condition at our disposal and in this sense, relaxation techniques offer a great contribution.



We also need to have trust the power of our minds and the fact that, as happens when using NLP techniques, it can be “reprogrammed”, substituting negative learning with positive, in such as way that the experience gained is prolonged in the future.  Thoughts need to be used to feed us and not to block us anymore.  The key to obtaining the results we want consists of placing of ourselves in a positive state of mind, with the awareness that we can govern our life.  Moreover, when training, like in NLP, you use the dynamic and creative power of mental images to help with your self-discovery and to aid your desired changes in virtue of impulse which tends to translate the images into actions.  During a visualisation, as well as with the visual images, you should also take into account other types of perception (auditory, tactile, kinaesthetic etc.)

NLP goes further than autogenous training but with an extra gear!
It goes deeper, restructuring our way of perceiving reality, substituting negative learning with positive learning. You, moreover, do not need to exercise yourself like you do in autogenous training.
































PART SEVEN: NLP and the Various Techniques Applicable to Various Aspects of Life


In this chapter, we will put together some useful techniques and concepts for the following areas:

Therapeutic
Personal development
Business

The ideas highlighted here can only be a brief outline of a few applications.  We ask that you get fully acquainted with the material to be able to use those applications thoroughly.

ANCHORING

How many times has listening to a particular tune brought back memories of an important or painful time in your life, making you re-live the same feelings?  When an image or sound is tied to our mind, as an emotional state or a behavioural reaction, an anchorage has occurred. Anchors can be naturally or intentionally cast: the NLP technique can voluntarily provoke a connection of this type for therapeutic reasons.

For example, in an examination setting, where a young person tends towards anxiety, a sensation of self-control and calmness can be anchored, to which they can access in their time of need by way of its attachment to a part of the body (the arm for example).

Generally speaking, therapeutic anchors are of kinaesthetic type, in other words, tactile. In fact, it is much easier for a person to touch a part of the body than see an image or hear a sound.

Subsequently, the operator can evoke in the subject a specific state of mind and, at the same time, make him associate it with a stimulus.

EXERCISE

Think about a negative emotion that you want to free yourself from and anchor by pressing your knee.
Now, what is it that you would have needed at that moment?
Anchor negatively by pressing the other knee.
Then employ the two anchors at the same time (anchor failure).







                                                   


METAPHORS


A metaphor is a story or tale that makes changes in those who listen. In NLP, metaphors are used as efficient therapeutic instruments for their extraordinarily ability to guide the listener through the use of mental processes that manage a change in the way reality is perceived.
A typical example is that of the child who asks his parents to tell him a fairytale, because while he listens, he uses his fantasy to live the life of the characters, facing their difficulties and consequently finds in himself the resources to face eventual personal fears.
Milton Erickson illustrated many therapeutic metaphors in his book My Voice Will Accompany You that were able to provoke such changes in the readers whom they left surprised. The objective of the metaphor consists in changing the way in which we face our problems......

IT ISN’T THE KEY, BUT IT’S A WAY TO TURN THE KEY!!!!

SOME EXAMPLES OF SIMPLE METAPHORS

The garden of life
“Imagine that you are in a garden, the garden of your life; there are some dead leaves dotted around the ground, all your worries are written on them; start to collect them, now burn them and scatter the ashes!”

The lake
“Imagine that you are at the bottom of a lake, the lake is your imagination; put every thought that you create in your head in a bubble and let it float to the top”.







TIME LINE 


The River Metaphor
If we dirty the water in a particular place, the whole river will be polluted, let’s go back and stop the river being polluted!!!!!!

The Time Line technique is very efficient in resolving many problems and for personal improvement.
The Time Line represents a metaphor on the basis that a person may reorganise his/ her memory and his/ her way of reacting in the present.   The Time Line allows us to set fire to the way we envision that life should be led, obtain awareness of it, and intervene in such a way to improve how we live our past memories and to “build our bricks in the best way to construct how we want our future to be”.  I bet everyone has heard someone using the expressions, “I’ve put my past behind me” or “I see a successful future ahead of me”.  It is nothing other than giving space to something that does not exist anywhere else than in your head.

“Time is perception, it is memory!”

“Time is contained in the present and inside it there is everything you can hope for, complete and understand. Wherever you are, that place holds all places and whatever distance you travel, embrace all distances”. (Gibran)

One of the characteristics of Time Line is that it is not necessary to repeat it and it only works if the subject really wants to leave a negative state of mind.
The first thing that the operator needs to do is to elicit the time line, in other words make it visible.  Individualize, in the space surrounding him, the arrangement of images relative to various times of his/ her life until a line is created that connects past, present and future events.  These should make him/ her realise that when s/he thinks of his/ her future or his/ her past, s/he is able to arrange them in the space around him/ her, defining direction and distance.





         
TIME LINE EXTRACTION     

If you had to indicate where you could find your past in the space around you, where would you put it? Point to it with your finger.
And where is your future?
Now think of something you did yesterday.  OK?
Now think of something you will do tomorrow. OK?
Do you notice that there can be a difference between the two images?
What is the difference?
Now think of something you did one year ago.
Now think of something you will do in a few years time.
Where would you put them?
Join the points with an imaginary line.
Make them realise it exists and it is managed at an unconscious level.

At this point, once the time line has been extracted, it can be used in various ways:  to eliminate a state of mind, to help anxiety, to help with the realisation of an objective, and so on.

                              HOW TO USE THE TIME LINE

Climb on top of the time line.
Go ahead a bit, after the original event is finished. 
Go above the event and start teaching.
Go before the event.
Go above and through the event and let the sensation go, maintaining the teaching.
Return to the present, letting go of all the sensations of successive events.
Control and pace the future (go into the future maintaining this state of mind).
Return to the present.

The subject feels great!!!!!

To maintain learning and to ensure long-term results, the following questions can also be asked:

What does all this teach you?
If you spoke to your child what would you say to him/ her?




         A QUICK TIME LINE EXERCISE

CLOSE YOUR EYES.
CLOSE THE BLOCK WE ONCE HAD INTO A FIST.
THEN THINK OF WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE NEEDED AND SQUEEZE IT IN THE OTHER FIST.
THEN SQUEEZE BOTH FISTS AT THE SAME TIME.
YOU WILL FEEL AN EMOTIONAL CHARGE.

Like all metaphors of reality, the time line is just an instrument that guides people to make changes in the way they perceive the world and themselves.  Its main advantage is in its ability to project the person into the hypothetical future, making him/ her live possible future situations beforehand. There is also the ability to take him/ her into past times to reconstruct them in an opportune way.

To be able to use the time line, however, it is necessary to understand the subject in a deeper way and to be helped by an NLP expert, for initially, you could meet with difficulty travelling along it. When you are able to pass over all of your time line, starting from the beginning of the past until arriving ahead of the future, observing all past experiences and all those yet to be experienced, which will be many more and even more satisfactory, useful and happy, you will be aware of the ability to control your life.  Every time you travel on the time line with pleasurable feelings of internal capacity, you will come back to the present. You will open your eyes and you will see a more exciting present and you will feel definitely more in shape to immediately start a busy and inviting future that waits for you.

PHOBIA TECHNIQUES (Cinema technique)

The above technique is very useful for phobias and fears.  It relies on the presumption that a phobia is a learning process or a block. In other words, how we interpret reality after having learned a negative suggestion.  We can easily re-program mental images in order to overcome any type of phobia.

“The Map isn’t the land”.

Localize the traumatic event by finding it on the Time Line.  Do this in a dissociated manner, without any emotional involvement.

Identify a peaceful state before the event.
Identify peaceful states after the event.
Imagine you are in the projection room of a cinema and you are looking at the nape of the neck of another “you” sitting down in the stalls watching the film.
You do not see the film being projected, you see yourself.
The film is in black and white with circus music playing.
The lights go on.
You associate yourself as an actor and you are in the film while the montage sequences quickly rewind in color.
Make the film run again in black and white (it gives an idea of oldness and has less emotional impact) while you go back to looking at the nape of your other self. Then go back to being an actor while the sequences are quickly rewound in color.
Repeat various times.















Ocular desensitization technique

This technique is useful as reinforcement after having carried out the cinema technique.  Go to the event that produced the phobia and take a mental photograph. Place the photo on your finger.
Move your finger from left to right to the sound of circus music.
Repeat until you eliminate it.

                                             
 



Anxiety Techniques

Anxiety is an idea not a reality!!!!!
We are in fact anxious for things that have not yet happened and probably never will!

     PROCEDURE
Go beyond the time line into the future, after the positive conclusion of the event.
Feel the sensation.
Come back to the present.
If the anxiety does not disappear, then you will need to restructure it:  “I know there is a part of you that thinks that it is important to have a little bit of anxiety to motivate yourself and I agree that it is important to be motivated, the problem is that anxiety isn’t good for the body.  Are there other ways in which it is possible to be motivated and let go of the anxiety?”

Some people, instead of motivating themselves with positive thoughts, motivate themselves with negative ones.  The above technique can be also useful to change this.
                                                                                                                                        
MOTIVATING YOURSELF WITH FEAR IS NEGATIVE BECAUSE IT IS DESTRUCTIVE

“Fear knocked on my door, faith opened the door and there was no one there”. (Skip Ross)

                                                     














SHUFFLING

Shuffles are anchors that create movement towards a desirable future.
We install choices for a new way of living
The following procedure explains the Shuffling technique:


Imagine your desired behavior or the type of person you would like to be.
If this state had an image where would you put it?
Where are the things that make you feel safe?
Take the old image and push it away until it becomes a little dot. (Helping yourself with your finger).
Make the positive image come back from the little dot into the place where the safe things are.
Repeat, pausing between each time, open and close the eyes and repeat seven times.
N.B. Make sure you have a detailed representation of your desired state

These are only some of the techniques used by Neuro-Linguistic Programming and from what you have been able to gather, it is clear that the person who turns to an NLP technician remains partly active. In fact, unlike traditional therapies, NLP provides you with the tools in order that you can consciously work on yourself in a quick and dynamic way. With the NLP model, one is interested in the process that leads to the final result. Bandler and Grinder defined personality as “choice”, meaning that instead of concentrating on which function of the ego is being activated, by whom and for what reason, attention should be aimed at how many choices that person has available at that time.  It is not necessary to classify a subject’s experience or re-live infant traumas to be able to change a behavioral aspect. The person can decide which behavior to modify, having at hand all the necessary tools with which to change.  Although when necessary, especially at the beginning, this should be done with the help of the operator.  Erickson, the best hypnotist of our times, never solved a problem in the traditional way.  His way of applying therapy was astonishing.  He used revolutionary techniques that were extremely efficient and he used different methods on different people, so that for a long time it was not possible to write anything about him or identify him with a particular type of therapy as had happened with other psychoanalysts.  He agreed that he did not have a particular method; he compared himself to an artist and said, “When an artist paints he needs to be inspired.  The same thing happens to me when I find myself faced with a problem.  I decide in that moment what to do”.



In each case the most important element in Erickson’s therapeutic practice was his use of instructive stories, anecdotes and riddles,  for example, to overcome habitual limits, he used stories to expand peoples’ minds.

THE BASIC METHOD USED BY Erickson in therapy was the “Symptom Prescription”, creating the way for small changes that were seen as the problem uptil that moment. It is something that prevents development, therefore, a behavior that springs up independently from will is prescribed at this point. Thus, the mind processes everything in a different way and the symptom or block goes away.

This is only one example to let you understand how NLP is different from that of traditional psychoanalyses, a fact that cannot be questioned.  However, if you had to achieve an internal re-harmonizing objective or overcome a problem and you had to choose between two paths (one which was shorter and easier the other longer and sometimes with signs that often told you to turn back and start your sometimes torturous and painful journey again), which would you choose?
Just think that during a psychotherapy session where NLP techniques are applied, you do not need to tell your life story or whatever it was that brought you to have the problem or block in the first place.  It is important to understand what it is that we want to free ourselves from or the behavior we want to change and act on.  It is not important to dig around in the past looking for the cause of the behavior we want to change.  It is a waste of energy that can be instead put to work in a constructive way by ourselves.  Obviously all these techniques are only successful when the person has the will to give up his old behavior and replace it with s more constructive one that s/he chooses.

 “Man was born to live, not to prepare himself to live”. (Boris Pasternàk)


Once you have acquired the technique, you will be able to feel in total control of your life, even when you find yourself faced with resolving one of your problems.  You would have acquired the technique of consciously working on yourself, therefore, you would always be the craftsmen of your own progress.  Obviously, you need to add a different mental approach, a more joyous way of seeing life almost as if it was a game. Remember, a person who is a “possibilist” is a positive person who has enormous internal energy, making him/ her active and capable even when faced with problems, for s/he can find winning strategies to solve them.  Dedicate 10% to the problem and 90% to the solution.  Take control of your life!!!!

                                    
PART EIGHT: IL R.E.I.


R.E.I., or Emotional Release, is a powerful technique for emotional problem resolving.
It is based on new principles, which can be added to what has already been discussed up until now on NLP, Hypnosis and Enneagram, improving the finished result.
Since this is a new subject, we advise you to visit our web site or telephone us on 348-3053013.


WHY CHOOSE THESE NEW METHODS?


“Because nothing exists outside of yourself that can have control over what is inside of you”.  (W.W.Dyer)

Unlike other models or psychologies, NLP and the other methods outlined here work on revealed behavior.   As well as providing a different conception of the person and therefore the discomfort, the group of models suggested by these methods allow for the participation on a therapeutic, educative and preventative level in a controllable and measurable way.  For example, the discomfort is restricted by putting into action specific, modifiable strategies, hence, detaching from the subject labeled “needy”.  Recognizing the importance of empathy (fundamental in good doctor-patient relations and usually at risk in all types of psychotherapy) in the creation of models helps in: the training of it, the speed of application, and the proposing of models that can help with every communication step whether individual or group. PNL together with INSTANT RAPPORT are the most adapt instruments to intervene on an individual and social level.  PNL deals with the most advanced frontiers of hypnotic and cognitive therapies, linked together in a clear way.  Its main purpose, therefore, consists of the definition of itself as a group of models and not a theory.


MODEL = a description of how something works without having to explain why.

THEORY = reasons have to be found to explain why.

The proposed models have been obtained by way of summing up and putting into action results gained from other communication academics.
Example: The recovery of Pavlov’s work is evident in the use of the anchoring technique.

From this viewpoint, the changing of the subject can only happen through the reframing of their internal representations so that a change of this type corresponds to an exterior alteration.

“The world does not have to be put into order, the world is order incarnate.  It’s up to us to find the right way of harmoniously positioning ourselves in it”. (Henry Miller)




COMPROMISE ANALYSIS, PSYCHOSYTHESIS & PNL 

In compromise analysis, the personality is divided into three fundamental parts: the parent, the adult and the child.  Human behavior is interpreted as a continuous interaction of these three parts;  in a healthy personality, the three parts make collective decisions, each part taking into consideration the needs of the other.  Conflicts arise when the parts start to act to their own advantage.  At this point, the therapist observes the subject’s behavior and classifies it according to one of the three sub-divisions.  This happens naturally when using the child, parent and adult metaphor, therefore, the client’s behavior is inscribed within the model. Although compromise analysis demonstrates the same formal models as other therapies, it uses NLP techniques, such as “anchor casting” or disassociation.  This also counts for pyschosynthesis which basis its work on reframing, another NLP subject.  However, as with compromise analysis, it splits the personality into various sub-personalities and if these are in conflict with each other, the client will show external incoherent behavior.  This means that there is a struggle for control, therefore, the therapist’s work consists of mixing the parts that are in conflict and of synthesising the sub-personalities into one.  When discussing pyschosynthesis we talk about a kind of controlled psychodrama, where the therapist can persuade the client to mentally occupy theatrical roles, allowing the different actors in the scene to express their individual intentions.

So, we can say that there are identical process models in every therapeutic technique, all pointing to the same final result.  However, what differentiates NLP is that it does not have any kind of subdivision and considers the individual in his/ her peculiar individuality, singleness and unity, having the ability to steer himself/ herself once s/he has learnt the relevant knowledge.  Man is gifted with a mind that is able to invent the existence of time, space and conscience.  S/he is an actor on a stage that s/he has constructed, complete with all the necessary accessories and scenes. Unfortunately, s/he does not realize the powerful instrument s/he has in his possession, in other words, the possibility to put “free will” into action or to be able to decide on what part he has on his own life stage.
We live in a culture where other people program our brains or better still, where we in turn unconsciously program ourselves.  So why do not we use this ability on ourselves when we are the first people in the world that we have to respect and understand?  NLP’s key words are freedom, choice, self-control, autonomy, mental health and the power of communication based on feedback, in the sense that at the moment in which we communicate the other person has to interact with us.  One of the corner stones of NLP is: “The significance of a communicative message is in the reaction that determines it”.




I would like to highlight one more thing, which is that the instruments and techniques presented here all point to the “how” and “what” of the subjective experience. Therefore, you can, at any time in your life, change and improve yourself by choosing the way that you feel is most agreeable to you at that time, without having to make lengthy analysis on the “why” of a difficulty or behavior you want to alter.

“The impossible is an absurdity.
All that is good is an integrated part of your being!”
PROGRESSIVE CONCEPTS


EPISTEMOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND THE NEW HYPNO-RAPPORT CONCEPT

Remarks & Considerations

NOTE: this last chapter reports a more in-depth summary.  It is essentially aimed at those who are already familiar with the subject and want to look further into it.

The “Palo Alto” school, through the work and thoughts of scientists like P. Watzlawick, J. Weakland and G. Bateson, introduced a very pragmatic analysis model which, in turn, was adopted by NLP: The Theory of Logical Levels. By Logical Level we mean the possibility of analyzing “reality” at different description levels; for example, if we consider a forest, we can take into consideration its entirety (chunking up), or we can concentrate our attention on a single tree (chunking down). Both of these interpretational levels are useful in analyzing the reality that surrounds us.  However, in certain situations it would be more convenient to consider it in general terms, while in others, the analysis of the “particular” would be more appropriate.



R. Bandler and J. Grinder, drawing on what they gathered from the modeling of M. Erickson, V. Sartir and F. Perls’ communicative strategies, have always leaned towards all the techniques that allowed the therapist to generate a harmonious rapport, indispensable in activating the change process.  For example, M. Erickson had great ability in using EVERYTHING that the client provided, with the aim of generally “pacing” the client’s own “model of the world”. Although Erickson KNEW what he did with his patients, he found it difficult to explain HOW he did it.  
M. Erickson didn’t “judge” his client; he simply used learning processes, without imposing metaphors, values and beliefs outside of his experience:  each intervention dedicated to the elimination of the so called learned limitations was carried out through the activation of the client’s natural learning processes. 





In NLP, “rapport” means “tuning”: when we pace our interlocutor at various descriptive levels, we allow him/ her to recognize himself/ herself in our communication and, consequently, trust us.
NLP can be usefully described as a multi-level, matching and leading system, organized inside a hieratic structure. Climbing up through these levels, we gradually pass from single techniques capable of generating a rapport (chunking down) to more developed, integrated models for personality evaluation: the Enneagram (chunking up).

The hypothesis we want to demonstrate is that:




We have tried to visually demonstrate this concept by using the schematic presented in the following table (a thank you to Stefano Sessini for the graphic layout).
 



