THE FIVE EXPERIENCES
Now that we worked on ourselves, have we the spinal cord and the force to exist in life? To follow our true path? 
  

In the book this chapter is dominated by the number 5.
Perceval has FIVE experiences. In the first four experiences he visit places he already knew. It means after the preceding steps, you should be in contact with your ESSENCE, and able to stay in your life with more POISE, more EQUANIMITY.
And the last experience, corresponding
 to the ether, is a moment of NO FEAR.
Experience nr. 1 : Visiting the castle of the five towers
Now Perceval comes back to the town of the woman he loves
The sixth castle of Blanchefleur has five towers
One tower is at the center
We can think that the fifth tower is our spine.
  

Here Perceval meet his lover.
The first energy is this energy
Exercise
Take a moment awareness of yourself
How do you feel about your spine now?
Our spinal cord is the key path for ascending our energy 
What has changed in yourself after having done all these meditations?


Experience nr. 2 : Overcoming our imperfections - The ugly woman
In a successive encounter a ugly woman is met. A knight is with her. Perzeval wins him
The hugly woman are our imperfections that we must win in our life


If we have energy we will go beyond our apparent imperfections


“ He meets Rosette (the loathly damsel) and Le Biaus Mauvais, laughs at the former, is challenged by the latter, whom he overcomes and sends to Arthur. “
This experience is again a “repeated experience”. The ugly woman is the opposite of the beatiful unknown.
It is matter. But it can be transformed. And it is shown by the fact that going to Arthur the woman becomes beautiful.
Exercise - The Sancta Sanctorum
Close your eyes
Imagine yourself going up, outside of yourselves
You continue going up, through the stars
Finally you see from far away a planet
You go there, there is a wonderful place.
Stay there and look from there.


And now go down again
And come back to the you as before


This is an ancient Rosecross Exercise to make you understand you are perfect
 
Experience nr. 3 : coming home
Now Perceval comes back home
The seventh Castle is were Perceval was born
Now Perceval comes to the Castle where he was born
He knows that her mother was dead
He could stay there 
But he decides to go further
Exercise
Create an image of the things you love the most.
And now STOP. Come back to the presence!
You are there
In the NOW there is energy. 
And we decide to let go all the unuseful attachments
Experience nr. 4: the hermit
  

And now again Perceval go to visit the hermit
He goes with his sister but get attacked
We understand how difficult is in this world to live the spiritual fully


For a moment Perceval consider to live as an hermit
But after a while he thinks it is not his path
The real spirituality is in life, and not in secluding himself from the Universe
Because he is a knight!
Meditation
YOU ARE A KNIGHT
You must stay in the reality
You can go further in life
Experience 5 : The Eighth Castle: overcoming fear of our energy and going beyond the bridge
MAGICAL GUIDED IMAGINATION
You are Perceval
You see a castle beyond a bridge
Perceval enters.
He is a fierce knight
He speak loudly
He has a hammer in his hands and resonates with the hammer on a table
A girl says him “the castle could fall if you speak so loud and you do so strong a sound”!
But Perceval doesn’t fear it
He is now master of this energy
Perceval shows he has no more fear. 
And the women will serve him.
It means if we have no fear we will have won
  



The word courage comes from the word coeur that means hearth


All preceding trials have purified your hearth
We are now at another level