Meditation nr. 4 - Winning the trial of AIR - Freeing your Mind  
How many thoughts do we have each day? Some people say 50000. Are they all really useful?


The quality to develop here is REAL INTELLIGENCE. It means not vain thoughts, but always focus your thoughts in a direction.
Exercise for the higher center of energy
A chevalier has what the Greeks called “PNEUMA”. It means he breathes and feels energy in himself.
This exercise will work on the center of air developing a magic center of energy
It is an exercise practised in a similar way even from the Samurais.


Be aware of your body.
Be aware of every part of your body physically.
Now
Bend, exhale the air in your lungs, and at the same time press your kin against your body
Next come up and put your head behind making the back muscles stiff
Repeat 6 or 7 times
This exercise will develop an inner power.
Your neck will be stronger 
In some days you will see some change begin
Secrets of the Chivalry of the Grail
Perceval - Celtic Mystery Initiation
Read and Meditate:
we learn how to FREE THE MIND
The fifth castle - the castle of the air
You are Perceval and you walk
In the fifth passage Perceval sees a dead corpse with a sword in his head. 
After he finds a woman waiting for her servant knight. Is the man that Perceval saw some moments ago!
The sword in the head and the dead corpse means you must let go of your thinking.
We must free the blood from the passions
Everything we think is false.
A knight is strong on his feet and feels his body


  



Magical Guided Imagination
To be done closed eyes with somebody guiding you or reading attentively the following text:


You are Perceval.
And now you are in the Castle of the air. 
In this castle there is everything, but people cannot benefit from it. 
A giant is the owner. 
The giant is the symbol of the mental I. The mental I lives in time, not in the present
This giant is your mind when it works automatically creating in you always new worries
We can have everything, but if we let our mind dominate we will be in misery
We will be this giant that leaves the inhabitants of the castle in misery.
But now we decide to FEEL our body.
We become aware of our feet, of our arms, and finally we breath intensively letting ourself going deeper
And now open your eyes. And be aware of your body


“Perceval attacks the giant and organ after organ he will destroy him. The lungs will be the last organ. The people of the castle will be free. The proprietary of it will give him a black horse”


Again we come to the power of Now. We can have everything, but we don't see it.


Therefore the lungs are the last part that get attacked
Air is also the symbol of words. And if we stay in concepts we don't see reality. We will only stay in our mental I. 
When you say “I am unhappy”, “people are hating me” this giant is controlling you.
You have everything. 
But you don't notice it.
You must stop your mental I
The exercise to win this giant is AWARENESS


Meditation of the Air
Perceval – The castle of the air -winning the giant of the air
Let your body completely abandoned
Notice now your body
Go into the silence
Notice that in doing it your breath changed
Get in touch with air
Let air come in – air come out
You let air guide your breathing in and out
You are breath
Is the breath that is breathing you
Is light coming in and out
You are getting in touch with your life force




Other image:
Enter the cave of the heart
Merge body and heart
Imagine yourself being breathed instead of breathing
The void lives through you


And with this fight we have completed the FIRST LEVEL OF THE INITIATION


In the Perceval the woman, now free, proprietary of this castle will give a new horse to Perceval
She gives him a black horse
It means now Perceval has the mastery of the first part of the Path


He is able not to be deceived by the apparences (the double castle)
He has mastery on his physical self (he won the black knight)
He has mastery on his emotional self (he won the lion)
He has mastery on his mental self (the castle of the air)


If you have followed the path until now you will also have control on the FOUR ELEMENTS
WATER: You won the appearances (the double castle)
EARTH: You won the black knight  
FIRE: You won the lion
AIR: You won the giant of the castle of the air
NOW YOU CAN STAY IN THE WORLD WITH A HIGHER LEVEL OF AWARENESS PREUX CHEVALIER!