Closing the Gap between Knowledge and Results

NLP Coaching Courses

What makes our trainings different from all the rest?

Learning Format 

The vast majority of NLP trainings available today act as though everyone will use NLP to become a therapist or a coach. 
Our trainings are different. While we cover a variety of therapeutic patterns, ideal for personal change, the focus of our trainings is to learn to use NLP & Coaching for personal and business objectives. You will apply the tools and techniques you learn in each class to your most important outcomes. Since you'll be doing this in every class, you will have the habit of applying these tools to the accomplishment of your goals and dreams for many years to come. 

Results Oriented

Many NLP trainings today help people to make positive changes, but not the most important changes in their lives. People improve, but still have the same major recurring problems they had when they started the training. Too much information, not enough transformation! 
We encourage you to bring your most significant issues to the training. Write them down and use the techniques you’ll learn to create immediate and consistent change.  



ISI-CNV Coaching perspective. 

ISI-CNV leads the field in combining the skills of NLP and Coaching. We are all coaches some of the time – either in our roles as friends, parents, colleagues or managers – or at times when we need to be able to coach ourselves effectively. NLP is an incredibly powerful tool for coaching, because it enables us to create change and achieve goals with precision and ease. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NLP Coaching Practitioner Training

NLP and Coaching…. A powerful model for change unfolds:
This 4-day training course has been created to introduce you to NLP and coaching techniques and how they can effectively be applied in your personal and professional life. Over these 4 days we will cover NLP coaching as a means to maximising your resources, to improve your communication, to create instant change and long-term results. You'll learn a vast array of highly valuable models and tools for personal and professional development. 
The unique set of skills and attitudes that have come to be called NLP Coaching have a remarkable effect on your ability to create and live the life you want. The Practitioner Training teaches competencies that are both long term and generative. They may be applied effectively to virtually any goal or challenge.  For this reason, these trainings are often described as state of the art courses in both personal effectiveness and professional communication. 

On the course you will:
Learn effective communications skills including listening, questioning and language patterns 
Learn the core skills for exceptional state management.
Learn the 6 human needs. Awareness of the reasons behind all behaviour.
Learn the 5 areas of focus to create a personal intervention.
Create an action plan for building a successful business 
Establish your own personal life vision 
Clarify outcomes and desired results. Clarity is power.
Model success strategies of two leading Life Coach trainers 
Gain awareness. The key to all success. You don’t know what you don’t know.
Strengthen your relationships with friends, colleagues, spouse and children.
Discover how NLP and Coaching combine to produce peak performance 

The course combines interactive learning with practical ‘hands on’ sessions.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NLP Coaching Master Practitioner Training

Whatever your reasons for becoming a Master NLP Coach are, being an outstanding coach means being an outstanding communicator, an outstanding influencer, an outstanding leader and an inspiration. Your presence must move people. You can only do that if you live, breathe and walk your talk. Coaching is more than just a profession, it’s an identity. It’s who you are. You have a responsibility to the people who put their trust in you. 
Hence the focus of this master track is to take your basic NLP Coaching skills to an entirely new level.
In addition, we will focus on:
Communication: your ability to articulate your ideas and beliefs in a way that compels people to listen. 
How to inspire, focus and mobilise teams.
How to ensure change means progress. Change is automatic, progress isn’t.
How to know when to ask, when to suggest and when to command.
Eliciting, aligning, and designing values. Values are the drivers behind all behaviour. Change someone’s values and you change their life.
Define your own personal life vision 
Highlight what could hold you back or prevent you from achieving this vision. 
Develop a plan that includes the action steps to close the gap between where you are now and where you really want to be.
Expand your own identity and psychology to empower you with the focus, certainty and discipline to make your vision a reality.




