INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS
 ISI CNV dr. Marco Paret









International Schools - Academic Consortium

Ecoles Internationales - Consortium Académique




		ISI-CNV
Université Européenne llp
FACULTE’ LIBRE DE PNL
France
CAIRN ACADEMIC CONSORTIUM
Belgium – France – Italy - UK – Nepal – India - Canada


GENERAL STUDY PLAN
2012





INDEX

international Programs	1
Isi Cnv Dr. Marco Paret	1
Index	3
Formation And Paths	5
Methodologies	6
Magnetism/Fascination Updated To Quantum Techniques	7
Deep Concepts For The Development Of Man	7
Path B Of Human Development And Quantum Technologies	8
Three Inner Steps For Real Development	9
Academic Master Research Project	10
International Network For Knowledge	10
Opening A Chapter In Your Country	10
Mesmerismus ® -Magnetic Path	12
First Step Of Magnetic Path	12
Fascination – Magnetic Path	14
Second Step Of Magnetic Path	14
Quantum Presence– Master In Quantum Physiology –Magnetic Path	16
Third Step Of The Magnetic Path	16
Luxmind And Quantum Psi Technologies	19
-A New Technology For The Mind-	19
Techniques And Concepts - A Small Glossary	19
Nlp-3 And Non Verbal Communication Diploma Course	22
Hypnotic Coaching	24
Quantum Coaching	25
Coaching For Magnetic Success	27
-Becoming A Coach That Uses His Vital Energy And Creates In The World-	27
Hypno-Selling And Gaze For Everyday Uses  - Charisma Enhancement	29
Real Hypno-Mentalism And Hypno-Magnetism – Silent Commands And Mental Control	31
Hermetic Magnetism – Accessing The Secret Energy Of The Mind	33
Train The Trainers	34
Informations On Our Lineages	37
Some Sites	43


WELCOME

We welcome you to this brochure that is part of an important cultural and research project.
Our aim is to help the knowledge of the old tradition of magnetic hypnotism in which we were initiated. We have updated them to the most modern quantum technologies. When we began this project we were alone. Now we see how many people, most of them our students have gone on this path.
These techniques are not only about psychology. They are also about energy (they are the western path of what in East is kundalini and similar techniques). They also rely on non-verbal communication. Non-verbal communication is very subtle, and the non verbal goes deeper than the verbal
They can be useful in therapy, in personal relationships and in every social situation.
And also for health, habits, personal development and more…
Most of books contain only a piece of this ancient and secret wisdom.
The complete system encompasses a lot of exercises, both physical as well as mental.
These exercises are rejuvenating and give energy to the practitioner.
They help to have a powerful impact and expand the human potentialities
And also be the first step of a Path to Presence that we could call “the ultimate path”
We propose you these techniques in a practical formation called "Mesmerismus®".


Even if the name contains the name "Mesmer", the techniques are more ancient than that of Mesmer. They encompass Fascination, Magnetism and Non-Verbal Techniques

It is a secret school and dr. Paret, the director, brings this ancient knowledge in the present world… updating them to the most recent researches and to the quantum level
They are very natural.
They awake man to himself: there, in himself, he can find maximum power.
In order to know when we will have the next courses use this form:
http://www.pnl-nlp.org/courses/contactus.php
You can also visit the website http://www.hypnotisme.com/hypnotisme/hypnotism-mesmerism.htm and http://www.mesmerismus.net
FORMATION AND PATHS
The training that the school ISI-CNV offers has a university pattern. 
These words mean, that to reach the different professional levels you must complete a series of training modules giving each one a certain number of credits.
To get the Final Certification you must submit a research at the end of the path.
In some paths certification is important, in others it has no meaning as there are paths also for a deep personal development.
Our school offers also standard training courses, you can still shape these paths according to your needs, to allow a full path and personalized service.
After the course there is even the possibility to become part of our organization, as we are growing and expanding these knowledges.
    Possible PATHS:
MAGNETIC PATH – MAGNETISTA
This path is for people aiming at exploring and becoming immediately able in the mesmeric and fascination techniques. It is the most current one. It is the exoteric (it means “for all”) version of the ancient tradition updated to the Quantum level.
Courses: Mesmerismus Level 1 – Fascination Course – Presence

TRAINER IN MAGNETISM AND MESMERISM (Level 1)
Complete the magnetic path. Repeat it at least once - follow the Advanced Seminar (path “hermetic magnetism” or path “NLP-3”) and Train the Trainer days + personal coaching

TRAINER IN MAGNETISM AND MESMERISM (Level 2)
Complete the magnetic path. Repeat it at least once completely and partly as an assistant. - follow the other path of the Advanced Seminar + personal coaching

Non verbal communication and nlp-3 diploma AND TRAINERSHIP
Our school specializes in non verbal communication and is the most advanced institute in this field. NLP-3 is mostly based on non verbal communication instead as on the verbal one. It goes far beyond classical NLP. It is a “magical” NLP with different techniques and connects it with the enneagram and what is presented in the magnetic path. Very useful for persuasion and subliminal non verbal communication. In conjunction with the magnetic path it opens up to a level of a certification permitting to teach NLP-3 as well to Practitioner and Master in NLP and NLP-3

QUANTUM COACHING PATH
This Path is for people that want to apply these techniques as Coaches. 

PRESENCE AND HERMETICISM PATH 
This is a very personal path that on higher levels can only be followed in smaller groups. Follow the Magnetic Path + Magnetic Hermeticism + Atoum Circles (it is an ancient knowledge about presence)
CERTIFIED HYPNOTERAPIST + ADVANCED MESMERIST CERTIFICATION
This course is for people wanting to start a practice starting from scratch and also for people already with experience in hypnotherapy that want to learn some traditional modalities that could be used in conjunction with magnetism and fascination. It encompasses both the magnetic path, the advanced course (NLP-3 and Non Verbal Communication Diploma) and a module of traditional hypnosis for the magnetic path, where certain techniques of traditional hypnosis are explained 
magnetic MASSAGE CERTIFICATION
Follow the magnetic path + personal coaching.

master trainer – mentor IN MESMERISM
Follow all courses of the school.

Methodologies
We offer an organized curriculum for studies in the most powerful techniques of Magnetism, NLP-3, Mesmerismus © and Quantum Technologies and Coaching. The programs are open to professionals and people seeking a higher education in these matters. We naturally recognize that the needs of professionals are different from those of adolescents and young adults - mature learners have a wealth of knowledge and skills which adolescents and young adults often lack. Further, we recognize that the career and family responsibilities of mature learners are often incompatible with the demands of years of on-campus, classroom attendance. The learner earns credit through intensive courses on the field and then married with independent off-campus study evaluated during our intensive seminars.  
We also use modern information modalities such as; audio and video taped lectures, computer tutorials, WWW site information links that are given to our students, mentor-guided reading programs and supervised-held study via skype.
Finally we have some ritual moments in our courses where the student is introduced to these techniques in the traditional way.
Magnetism/Fascination updated to quantum techniques

Welcome to our formation, your door to unleash the true power of your mind and yourself. 
Our discipline is a modern and powerful tool to create powerful and practical results. Our Quantum Magnetism technology is also suitable for deep processing, in all the domains of life. 
It originates from the convergence of 
ancient traditions and techniques in which we were initiated, passed down to us during our research and of which we are the last exponents, and this paradigm with which we are able to give expansion and scientific foundation 
paradigms applied to the quantum mind, which is the most evolved exists in the modern world to treat our relationship with the world. And 'in fact the discipline's most successful predictions to be controlled in a world where we know that the exceptions are always a possibility. And the language and life are systems where the exceptions are the norm. 
from our many years of practical experience in psychology and techniques of mind 
from the experience of our seminars and courses, where we have experienced countless moments of discussion and experimentation of the techniques described. 
from the theoretical competence being responsible for what has been the most innovative school in Italy and France over the last ten years. 
from measurements taken with various equipment with which we have verified many of the techniques that we teach. 
Deep concepts for the development of man 
Our system is extremely innovative and has not only external applications, improving your mental power. 
It is also a way of human growth. 
A basic concept is the man in the universe and his subjective reality. 
It starts from the consideration that all the psychological disciplines seek to develop human potential, but no one questions the goal of achieving greater skills and abilities, and how to integrate these elements with awareness. 
Only accessing subjectively and really the complete structure of man you can figure out how to access its potential. 

This has consequence: 
In an organization it becomes clear how every performance is linked to the "human factor" and the "sense" that people feels in the organization. Our system is also the key to the realization of a true "Quantum Coaching" 
At therapeutic levels, we realize that beyond the various techniques there is a person with which we operate and resonate and the relationship should take this into account, as well as the fact that we are a person and therefore we influence the results
On a personal level, we open up to the two ways of human development: 

The Two Fundamental ways for the Development of the Person 

There are two avenues of growth for the human being:
 
path A
 and 
path B 

- The direct path (path A) is the “heroic” path. For those who want to go directly to the deepest of themselves, to get the most high state of consciousness that a human being can live. 

- The indirect path (path B) also called “magical” path, is for people who do not have the concentration and the energy to do so because they are too distracted by daily life and therefore they want to achieve some goals (eg, success, health, money, relationships) before to have enough energy to follow the path A. 
We accept the fact that each has his own way of seeing the world. It is a technique of freedom. 
Path B of Human Development and Quantum Technologies 
If implemented wisely, following path B is positive and acts as a first useful step allowing a person to develop to its fullest potential and resources. 
This brochure will deal essentially with path B, as we do not believe that there are at this time a sufficient number of people able to deal directly via A. 
In addition, those who are not able to get results in life it is probable that they are in such a situation because they don’t have all of their resources. Therefore it is very unlikely they will have the energy required to follow the path A.
 
But there is another even more important reason. 
In today’s world, we assist to the fact that there is a continuous search for way B procedures forgetting the man who practices them. 
Only a few techniques work in the best direction for the operator.
While allowing you to achieve results in the short, or even in the medium term if we have in the mind a direction of development that is aligned only with contingent elements, instead that with the real and profound human nature, the risk of psychosomatic problems, or to move away from the center more and more is too high. 
Our method unlike any previous technology focuses on the doer rather than on the done. 
We think it therefore important to indicate a feasible and positive path. 
Three INNER STEPS FOR REAL development
In our view, learning these techniques must be part of a path also and transformation of the human being. It is true that persuasion and healing abilities will be greatly enhanced, and it is also true that in our discipline a key point is the operator that must become a true Master.
Traditionally, from the most ancient times there were three steps a person must do to get to the top and really be a Master:

Step 1 – getting rid of unnecessary thoughts and needs. The level 1 is preliminary and can be done with various methods. It consists in the awareness of the existence of the basis states and in overcoming all the obstacles that may exist in order to begin to access to level 2. 
In practice, the participant solves all its states of stress baseline. Ordinary man’s mind is full of a cloud of thinking and of want. The first step needs a person to create a clear mind - the ancient alchemists called it making the salt crystal clear. It means a mind no more cluttered by the encrusting of habits and a different relationship with the body where we live in the body.

Step 2 – grasping the first level quantum view of reality. At level 2 the participant expands the basics and become better able to master the external activators to expand its awareness. He experiences the natural series basis of some deep states of consciousness and can already start with the first steps of growth thereafter. 
Such states are important as well as for individual development, and also are of great importance in the therapy and are the basis of the model of long-term permanent change. In this level we understand that we are part of the same universe we are observing. This awareness must be a daily awareness, not just a glimpse.

Step 3 – enhancing the inner fire. At level 3, the participant is now ready to learn the techniques directed towards the center of himself, in a direction that is the complete transformation of the individual. This is climbing the ladder of personal development beyond even the meaning of these words. We go in touch with a superior state of reality and consciousness. The ancient called this step enhancing the sulphur, as sulphur contains in itself the root of fire. The techniques of this level cannot be exposed to words as they require the knowledge of the earlier steps to be understood.

These three steps and their succession comes from a centuries old tradition, whose goal is bringing back man to himself.




ACADEMIC MASTER RESEARCH PROJECT
Our work will have a bigger value, if done in contact with the reality and part of a bigger project.
The trainee can realize and have all his studies become a recognized part of a Personal Master Research and Development Project. 
People wanting to do the Master Research Project are the people that in the future will most spread these techniques. 
CAIRN is an academic consortium and ISI-CNV is part of it. It will recognize credits to this project and give a doctorate or a recognition. This doctorate is based in Nepal. Cairn has a list of about 30 professors that can try to endorse it in different countries, but we cannot guarantee it always. So please take this certificate more as an endorsement of your work if your country doesn’t recognize it.

INTERNATIONAL NETWORK FOR KNOWLEDGE
EURO -ASIAN ACADEMIC NETWORK RESEARCH IN Higher Practical Mental Sciences
Neurosciences - Tibetan Mysticism - Scientific Hypnosis - Western and Oriental Esoteric Paths of Power and Therapy
We are the only ones with an international curriculum aimed at researchers and students with the purpose of achieving the highest levels and we are open to admit other institutes or schools providing similar objectives.  Our units are based in Europe and Asia (Nepal). Based on an International Academic Euro Asiatic Network for research
Opening a chapter in your country
A person working seriously can open a branch/chapter in his country and get endorsement by all structures in which we are active. It can realize:
A research chapter
An operative chapter
Or both
A research chapter contributes to the research work of the school. It can even have recognition from CAIRN or the school
An operative branch organizes courses and participates in the activities of the institute
To be head of a chapter a person must be a Mentor. A mentor is a person with specific qualities and experiences in the filed in which he is operating, and know profoundly the techniques. Mentor was the name of the person to which Ulysses gave his son Telemacus before one of his long travels. But Mentor is also the form that the goddess Athena takes in various moments of the Odyssey (Athena is Minerva in Latin, goddess of intelligence but also eponim of wisdom).

Expanding our magnetic chain

About the teaching of magnetism contained in our magnetic path, creating a branch or a chapter permits also to expand the “magnetic chain”.
In quantum terms the “magnetic chain” is an entanglement between the members of a group.
In fact we observe certain phenomena when more persons work together on some issue.
These effects have been also studied and labeled as “morphic field”: "The morphic fields include all kinds of organizing fields: The organizing fields of animal and human behaviour, of social and cultural systems, and of mental activity can all be regarded as morphic fields which contain an inherent memory."
According to the essential uses, customs and traditions of Magnetism and most particular Hermetic orders, which have been scrupulously preserved by our lineage, a recognized branch has the power to make and develop teaching about magnetism, according to the lineages that we preserve and all groups that continue them are inside the so called "magnetic chain"  and are to be considered as regular and develop this “inner memory”.

There are some specific points that are set for a group to be considered as regular in working with magnetism:

1 - not taking political or religious dogmatic point of view
2 - preserve and study the tradition respecting it and staying obviously in the lineage
3 - develop the work of presence
4 - divulge with respect to the discipline and of the other fellows practitioners
5 - adhere to the vaster group


Mesmerismus ® -Magnetic Path
 First step of Magnetic Path  

Secrets of magnetic inductions

The word Mesmerismus ® means connecting the forces of nature to his work and to his influence. Having these forces available, in creating the plan of his life, everyone can aim for the top. In life with others: Personal Magnetism leads to develop personal and professional success, and on another level to understand and act on the mechanisms of attraction and relationships.
Well-being: the techniques created according to the model of Mesmerismus ® invigorate and also lead to personal well being.


INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS
 
The course shall issue the certificate of international Magnetist Emeritus in combination with the course of Mesmerismus base.
 
FEE:
 
Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €.
 
 
DURATION
 
Two days of workshops
 
 
First day:
 
-           Exercises and experiences magnetic base
-           Symbols and magnetism
-           First Protocol "conscience"
-           Exercises for the rapid development of magnetic force and vitality
-           Various daily practices of magnetism and magnetism experimental
-           Second Protocol "energy"
-           M taste and magnetic ipnogeno
 
Second day   :
 
-           Exercises rejuvenation
-           Theories of Bersek and strength development
-           The two cerebral hemispheres and how to use their strength
-           Personal magnetism in life
-           Magnetism Remote
-           Third Protocol "connection"
-           Develop the power of voice
-           Develop the power of the gaze
-           The two polarities and how to develop
-           Fourth Protocol "concentration"
-           Various demonstrations

FASCINATION – Magnetic Path 
 Second step of Magnetic Path  

Secrets of Fascination

With these techniques you can learn how to influence others and yourself.
 
Learning FASCINATION means learning the hidden keys of the GAZE.
 
Technically we define “fascination” as a particular mental state, similar to what occurs when we are involved from a movie or something that attracts our attention.
The analysis of the phenomena of fascination involves the use of multiple brain areas:
• The part of the brain that interprets what he sees, that connects the cerebral cortex
• The part of the brain that lives emotions that connects to the limbic system
• And the deepest part of ourselves, our reptilian brain, which provides the basis of the process of fascination, blocking our attention
 
The process is triadic:
recognition and observation of an item => emotional charge => fascination and capture attention.
 
The STATE OF FASCINATION is different from the classic trance.
Thanks to the fascination of the events you can get hypnotic effects without any possible form of suggestion, and no one can attribute this result to the expectation of the same.
Fascination is a specific hypnotic state.
One of the most amazing and hypnotic forms at the same time and one of the most consistent in the results that you can get.
The subject has some physical signs: softening of the jaw muscles, eyes open with little or no beat, a general dumbing down.
In this state, the focus is and the suggestions of the hypnotist are followed instantly.
Frequently the person's eyes fascinated shall set as attached on the eyes of the charmer and he does not stand out more.
Many subjects also recount that he/she does not remember anything at the end of the experience.
Another kind of fascination is to influence and persuade, and not by chance that the term has come into common parlance to indicate the ability to capture attention.

INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION

This course will give you the international certificate of MAGNETISTA EMERITUS if also the level 1 of Mesmerismus had been completed.

QUOTA DI PARTECIPAZIONE:

Valore reale del corso 1390,00 euro, iscrivendosi almeno un mese prima dell’inizio del corso l’importo sarà ridotto e si usufruirà del prezzo in promozione di 799,00 euro.


How Long

Two days


First Day:

Various fascination exercises
Gypsy Hypnosis
Raw fascination
Donato’s Method
How to use fascination for regression work

Second Day :

Types of gaze
Amnesic fascination
Di Pisa’s Healing Method
Faria’s points
Hypnomagnetism with fascination
A powerful method against traumas
Third eye techniques
Working with mirrors


QUANTUM PRESENCE– Master in QUANTUM PHYSIOLOGY –Magnetic Path 
Third STEP of the MAGNETIC PATH
Presence and Alchemy of the Light
What we call "presence" is the path of human development toward a higher self-awareness. It 's the culmination of all the traditions of self-seeking. It also is a state with practical consequences and verifiable, here are a few: An example: one of our employees in some matches in the world of karate (he was runner-up world of the world) went into a strange state: the time of others seemed slowed down, while its normal proceeded. The result? he always won.
Many so-called "states of high performance" where a person is extremely capable (expressive, creative, attentive, able to exploit its potential) sometimes contain elements of the Way of the Presence although they are still on the initial part of the journey, because such a development guides towards a true rebirth of the person.
Developing the means to get out from mental automaticity, presence gives us access to our real potential and then things that previously seemed impossible become possible and near.
Much of human actions are performed mechanically in fact, as a succession of cause and effect.
The consciousness of man is usually narrow and dominated by unconscious elements. The technical development of the person of the "presence" or "power" (also defined as "solar" or "dry") are to develop a particular process with abandonment of the false personality and development of a new central principle and unified.
The person is led on the way to its essence, that part of himself that rarely occurs, but when it happens we experience a feeling of well-being unspeakable.
The "Reintegration in the presence" in the ultimate degree can only be represented with symbols, words are not enough. And the highest state of consciousness reached by the man who is also accompanied in the upper echelons of phenomena specific to an parasensoriale. It 'a practical reality: Matter, Energy and Consciousness in the report. And 'the concept of "enlightenment" that also exists in Eastern traditions (such as Dzogchen).
To get to have both presence is essential to know the direction of the methods that facilitate the path
While having the lead contact with a single and simple exercises are sufficient to deepen, the group allows you to run more quickly and in a few days what alone could put years.
That's the reason for this course.
We propose a method, originally secret, simple (even if it requires perseverance) and tested, the best existing to achieve this state of human functioning. This method is updated with approaches to quantum psychology and others.
 
 
 
Alchemy of the Light
The light can be a tool that helps the transformation. The course will mention also to various traditions and secret sealed western and eastern to which we had access staff to create this initiative and who are given the participants a basic key to understanding.
All Traditions called "alchemy" in fact have at their heart the presence instantly as understood in this workshop. The course, developed, can also lead to the level of the so-called "philosopher's stone" of human transformation.
The concept of "Alchemy of Light" is twofold. Both reconnects to what was said in the previous rows (hermetic tradition), and reconnects to the techniques where the light is a factor of help since it allows to facilitate understanding of certain processes allowing a better brain activation, although the presence and symbolic work remains fundamental.
In order to attempt an explanation of the usefulness which light is regaled with, we are presently going to resort to a series of reflections based on modern quantum theory. The Universe is a whole. From this whole, our perception “exercises” some parts. The parts thus severed from the whole correspond to certain vibrational states of our neurons. In order to see a tree, for instance, the neurons of the visual cortex must be activated in a manner in which is different from the one that is needed when, to give an example, we discern a mountain.
This very same concept is also at the heart of Pribram and Bohm’s holonomic theory: "Every sense works like a lens, and thus refocuses the visual waves both by perceiving specific elements which are reiterated so as to establish an underpinning basis, and by perceiving distinct quantities. If we were to take the lenses off, only a hologram would be left”.
Given that every sense works by refocusing in accordance with certain mechanisms, it is very difficult to regain access to the WHOLE.
We might call this whole a "totipotent whole", by drawing a comparison with the concept of "totipotence" which is used in the biology relating to stem cells that are capable of growing in every cell of the organism.
White light is a "totipotent whole", inasmuch as it encompasses all the colours in its quantum superposition. 
What we name reality is purely the light that gets reflected on the different objects. Every visible object is already potentially present in the white light. 
Many experiences share the experience of light.
When we observe light and, even more significantly, when we are able to discern or imagine white light even if our eyes are shut, we are drawing close to the “totipotent field", which is in turn quite closely related to the concept of "quantum field".

FEE:
 
Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €.
 
DURATION
 
Two days of workshops
 
First day:
 
-           The physical level
-           The mental level
-           The emotional level
-           Concept of consciousness
-           Exercises presence
-           Separation of layers
-           Magnetic massage and ipnogeno
 
Second day:
 
-           Techniques for anxiety, discomfort, negative thoughts
-           Recovery of the concept of consciousness
-           Purpose of the presence
-           Exercises for awareness
-           False core
-           Essential core
-           Exercises of presence in the mirror


Magnetic Massage
Inside the course will be presented the magnetic massage: you can also become an operator. In our school, a leader in non-verbal methods, we have also developed two extremely empowering technologies that multiply the result of Magnetism and even hypnosis also opening a new professional direction.
Although the name 'massage' is used, the techniques taught can be carried out by anyone. If you learn from a professional masseur can be a bridge to combine hypnosis and magnetism in their practice.
This is an unique technologies based on direct transmissions and experiences of dr. Paret (massage ipnogeno) and not spread in the same way in any other school, with powerful therapeutic results.
The complete methodology is presented within the Master in Quantum Physiology (Quantum Presence) so that those who attend the course and Mesmerismus presence Quantum can also become operator of magnetic massage attending also a small personal coaching




LUXMIND and quantum Psi technologies
-A new technology for the mind-
Quantum Psi is a new technology that rediscovers the fundamentals of human genius and of the highest achievements of the mind. 
It is based on recent theoretical research. 
In our school it is combined with practical elements that make learning easy and immediate: in fact in the courses using for a number of elements (specific rhythms, ideas, etc ...) that make it a feasible, immediate and a simple application of the model to every practical purposes .
Luxmind is about releasing the power of the mind. It is an advanced technology spread all over our courses. Among the usefulness of this technique is that we use the power of our mind to work on multiple items at the same time and make instant assessments with the power of a quantum computer human. 
It is the key of genius, creativity, and for the highest achievements of the human spirit. 
It is also method of learning that improves vision of associations and connections between the various elements. 
This Quantum Discipline is a new class of science is completely different from the others that preceded it. 
By its very nature is interdisciplinary. It starts from the ideas to which modern research has opened and applies them in new areas such as the psychological and social. Therefore applies the uncertainty principle, the superposition of quantum states etc ... 
Techniques and concepts - A small glossary 
We have developed many new techniques and applications. 
In specific Quantum Psi has been connected to the system LuxMind in the unique and powerful paradigm of Quantum Extreme ®. 
Here is a short glossary of some of the key concepts of the techniques of Quantum Extreme ®: 
1. Mental initialization: is the determination of the starting point of a transformation or a creative process of our mind 
2. Register of mental states and possible informations: determining the number of possible states, that is the starting point for quantum operations and the creation of a coherent superposition. At this point, our unconscious mind can begin to operate 
3. Interference from one item to the other: the act of an element on the set of transformations (calculations) quantum. Examples of interference are for example those made by symbolic elements. 
4. Quantum Correlation/Entanglement: the fact that the two elements can come into contact and subsequently maintain a ratio (entanglement) between them. This concept applies even to magnetism, where people entangle at a distance and create distant reactions 
5. Equilibrium/Balance is the central position that eliminates dissipative situations
6. Amplification of mental coherence The use of elements and rhythms that amplify the extreme quantum mode. 
7. Reducing information: the reduction of the amount of information to a single element 
8. Implicated order and explicate order: the two positions 
9. Coherence and Decoherence of neuronal information: We need concentration.  For a quantum computation can take place it is essential that the information remains consistent and is not lost to the environment 
10. Holographic Model: the holographic model is essential to constitute a theory of learning and information retrieval. Approach implies a "top-down". 
11. Presence and consciousness and their relationship with the implicate order. Presence can be a pathway to accede to the implicate order starting from the explicate order 
12. Phase and Frequency: The information you have the same phase can be combined more easily. The interference patterns apply to this situation 
The model of reality of Quantum PSI

Quantum Psi observes reality by dividing it into layers. 
In fact, we live in our own subjective universe. We stratify it on the basis of our experiences and this is what is meant by common sense as existence. 
Quantum Psi assumes that there is also something before everything: consciousness, that is what we really are.

- The deepest layer is the objective state or consciousness: how do we know to exist? Even the Greeks had understood that we are not our thoughts and thinking we exist. Consciousness is a process not computable.
- After we have the layer of space-time. 
Time and space are self-referential structures created by the individual and represent the set of structures that define the world. 
Their characteristic is that there are not quantum, and transcending them you can access to a level of quantum reality. 
Within this structure the individual feels the energy flowing in particular direction defining the so-called "emotional states". 
- The energy model of the individual is vectorial, so it has a precise direction and speed. Under this point of view the concept energy can be comparable to the study of a series of flows. These flows can be seen both as waves that as compounds of elements. And for the Heisenberg principle the determination of a dimension, prevent the determination of the other dimensions. So if we experience the flow we will not experience the  
- The "emotional states" define the basic reasons of acting of the individual, and every emotional state exists in a particular time and place. In other words, the emotional states exists only related to contexts and situations. 



Emotional states are in a superposition scheme until the moment in which they are not determined by measuring them in a specific context. 
Emotional states can also be defined interior activators. 
Emotional states always exist in digital form, that is, each emotional state is opposed to its opposite. 
To emotional states we connect the concept of "physiological state of action" linguistically corresponding to the verbs and "environmental indices" linguistically corresponding to the various elements (place, agent etc ...). 
Environmental indices exist only in function of their localization in a context space and time of their conceptualization. 
The processes of abstraction and association of neuronal networks within the mind mean that more environmental indexes of second level may be gathered in the top-level or "constructs" and give shape to a class even higher. 

Among indices, constructs (second-level indicators) and physiological states produces a process called "activation" which leads to activate through the mediation of emotional states, the states of physiological action An experiment with monkeys has shown that in fact: the monkeys orient themselves according to certain environmental indices, some specific objects (eg, a banana) corresponding in humans to a higher level constructs, and defining a specific action (eg climbing) for each spatial location.
























NLP-3 and non verbal communication DiPLOMA COURSE
Quantum thinking is the most modern way to see the mind.
High Quality for Excellence. Over the years many people have followed our powerful formations remaining enthusiastic. We use the most modern dynamics of NLP and NLP-3, Hypnotic Communication, and the many techniques taught exclusively by our institute including quantum. 
The course includes in fact in addition to the techniques of NLP and NLP-3, the updated methods Quantum Extreme ®, a revolutionary technology immediate that includes and goes beyond the previous ones, as it starts from a quantum approach, and develops "neural coherence" to increase the speed and brain power and mental energy with its own techniques. This allows faster learning and greater results. In each course theory and practice, intermittent to be able to offer an experiential education engaging and exciting. 
 
This first level of Training of Professional Practitioner of NLP-NLP-3-CNV consists of 2 modules of training: the Professional Practitioner of NLP-NLP-3 and the SEMINAR COACHING, for an excellent preparation. 

NLP (Neuro Linguistic Programming) is a technique very diffused today for change and improvement of communication skills and NLP3 is a further development of NLP toward quantum thinking, called NLP 3.
NLP3 is based on many experiments and also on integration of not verbal technology.
Each technique explained has been practiced and tested hundreds of times with success. It is a very efficient way of thinking and operating going beyond the paths of mainstream NLP.
While for example in NLP we have the word “linguistic”, in NLP3 we put much more emphasis on non verbal behaviour as this is a fundamental key for the efficacy of our discipline. While in traditional NLP we have the word “programming”, NLP3 has the goal to pave the way to the “quantum thinking” that it is completely different from programming. In Quantum thinking the mind is free.
•	If you are an NLPer, this is your occasion of learning something new that will further enhance your efficacy.
•	If you are new, you will start with the right foot. 
Most of the most successful teachers and practitioners use, at least unconsciously, many elements written in this book.
Personally we find this methodology simpler in application than the old ones.
In our centres we train psychotherapists and hypnotherapists, and we practice as well personal therapies, coaching etc…
This is as a new discipline based on recent researches and on the successes we have got. Please, throw away all your past mental conditioning and open your mind to new frames of thinking: what you find here is the result of our experience!
We explain it with a theoretical framework around the lines of Enneagram, NLP and other techniques as we have found these frameworks highly effective both for us as for our students.
Welcome to the new world!

This course can be thought as composed of two parts: first part about the non verbal communication, Enneagram and NLP-3 framework (first day and half) and second part as relating more to techniques and hypnotic application.  The two parts can be followed independently

INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION
This course will give you an international certificate of NLP-3.

Investment:
Real Value of the course: 1800 euros. If you participate also in the magnetic path you have right to a 30% discount and you will pay 1200 euros.

How long
4 days

First day:

Non verbal Persuasion
Small known keys of Non verbal communication
The three main symbols
The path of persuasion
Enneagram and NLP3
Ideas for working

Second day:

Professional Uses
Time Line and the Enneagram
Transforming realities
Light and NLP-3


Third day:
Creativity and NLP-3
Magnetic anchors
Hypnotic keys
Quantum Linguistics

Fourth day
Quantum memory – using NLP-3 to learn faster
Hypnotic addenda

Hypnotic Coaching
Traditionally hypnosis is often thought to much without reference with the magnetic paradigm. 
In this course we will learn hypnosis in a way adapt to practice also magnetic techniques. 
It is a kind of hypnosis where we stimulate the requirements of the base of the individual, quickly bringing the subject to considerable depth of trance.
A course for a quantum leap in personal and professional practice of the subjects taught thanks to the unique techniques of our school.
A course in which you associate some hypnotic techniques and quantum concepts of life coach and business coach.
This is a complementary course to the magnetic path.
 
INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION
 
This course gives you the certification of  Hypnotic Coaching and Advanced Hypnotherapist and Mesmerist. Very useful to start a practice  
 
FEE:
 
Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €.
 
DURATION
 
Two days of workshops
 
First day:
 
-           States of consciousness and phenomena of trance
-           Anesthesia
-           Profound analgesia
-           Coaching Professional Hypnosis regressive
 
Second day:
 
-           Examples of inductions (Erickson, oriental, elman)
-           Regressions dissociated
-           Quantum methodologies
-           LuxMind method for setting objectives
-           Hypnotherapy essential

In the future we will also activate the courses: Hypnosis essential and “hypnotic Practice”. Now these arguments are developed inside the Hypnotic coaching above.






Quantum Coaching 
Quantum coaching uses the system of luxmind inside a coaching paradigm to help a person to be him/herself and develop his/her potentials
A quantum coach is a coach that develops creativity in his coachee and solves problems with creativity.
Genius and creativity have an origin, and this origin is not in a logical sequence of steps: it is a quantum paradigm.
Creativity can not be developed by a machine: The creativity comes normally in seconds, from deep areas of our mind. There is a reason for this: we can not be totally aware of the processes that lead to creativity, otherwise we would block it with our logic.
Our Quantum Psi technology applied to coaching is able to effectively treat the behaviors "quantum" that is, the manifestations of the mind resulting from processes that are normally completely unconscious. 
These are processes that can never become conscious without being distorted.
As long as a process is in fact our unconscious the brain work more effectively because it can use the quantum mode, following several lines of reasoning at the same time and creating mental associations.
The reasoning is unconscious, however, different from the traditional way: at this point it is necessary to use a quantum paradigm to treat this type of information that appears on a conscious level exclusively expressed by symbols or feelings.
Quantum mechanics is a modern discipline and effective to create models and predictions controllable quantum behavior. Can you give us helpful hints on how long elaboration on what to do in case of need, etc..
The quantum process allows us to understand what is behind the genius. 
The brilliant idea sometimes comes in milliseconds.
Our individualistic self, consisting as it does of habits, is seldom capable of fully understanding the infinite range of answers which life might provide. It is therefore necessary to open up one's vision and have recourse to intuition, to a higher sense in which is not merely grounded on logic, but is rather based on an array of different evaluations which can only be made unconsciously.

INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS

This course will give you the certificate of PROFESSIONAL COACH

Investment

Real Value 1190,00 euro, reduced price 799,00 euro.

How Long

Two days of coaching

First day:

Goals of the coaching
Concentration of Mind
How to conduct a coaching
Using Luxmind for coaching


Secondo day:

Quantum coaching
Relationship coaching
Energetic Coaching
Natural coaching
Group coaching
COACHING FOR MAGNETIC SUCCESS 
-Becoming a Coach that uses his vital energy and creates in the world-
Many people strive for success. Magnetism and Quantum thinking can be a road to success.
If you were to enquire from many people as to how they have attained success, they would reply to you that “they had been blessed with luck”, and that life’s circumstances had enabled them to give expression to their own inspiration. In actual fact, these persons set out from an inward impulse, from some force which is created out of their subjective interaction with the Universe. Ultimately, the Universe is what they actually give effect to. It is this force, this energy, which confers stability even on their life plan, and which enables them to persevere amid difficulties and through them. Resort to this kind of force is normally escorted by a feeling of satisfaction, and by a resolute desire to enjoy life with regard to every thing it has to offer.
Success and happiness are always in front of us. All we need is learning how to stir into motion our vital energy, and how to steer it in the right direction, in order to enable it to yield positive results. The Universe is no more than a response structure. It is commensurately with the way in which we interact with the Universe that whatever we wrest from it emerges into existence. We are able therefore to extract results, provided we adopt the right posture.
Creating and Steering energy. The vital energy represents the second element in the under-stated fundamental dyad, which represents the essential key to achieve any thing:
The Fundamental dyad
1 – Consciousness of what we do in the now and over time 
2 –Vital Energy
The vital energy, which is the foundation that underpins true personal magnetism, is chiefly physical in nature. It consists in vitality. Usually, however, we are devoid of true consciousness of it. When that is the case, which is the normal scenario, vital energy is merely used and consumed away in the effort of preserving our habits. Many people’s reactions are piloted by a tiny little ego which is capricious and wasteful in setting out to attain its objectives. Such objectives accordingly fritter away this vital energy in the undertaking of aimless actions.
A parallel exists between what we do with mental energy and what we do with the gifts and possibilities life offers us, such as relationships and our money. Avoiding dispersions of mental energy and channelling it in the right direction represent human engagements which need to be carried out in order to increase energy, and thereby expand the range of our active doing. 
If we concentrate, the greater amplitude of mental power which is generated by concentration has the effect of us developing power in reality and naturally transcending habits. When that stage is reached, we will then be capable of enjoying the opportunities life supplies us with. 

The aim of a coach is to develop the skills and potential of the coachee.
The Coach uses all the techniques at his knowledge to get maximum results, developing a personal relationship with the coachee. Just as every coach strives to be the best and to go beyond the existing models aiming exclusively to the result to be a good coach is essential to develop their own personal and unique model of coaching, and also develop a range of skills such as confidence in themselves and safety. This course teaches you a variety of psychophysical strategies for success that fit in a wider frame. This powerful model also includes the sale of NLP-3 and concepts of Quantum Psi applied to the sale and the coaching. This quantum model is in fact particularly effective in complex situations characterized by a high number of variables.
 
INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS
The course shall issue the certificate of international MASTER COACH.
 
FEE:
Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €.
 
DURATION
Two days of workshops

Practical instructions on how to use the secret energy of the mind and fascination in order to attain success –Practical applications aimed at improving one’s personal charm, life, profession, relationships, and financial activities
 
First day:
 
-           Coaching techniques
-           Business and Leadership
-           Techniques of Hypnoselling
-           Enneagram applied to business
-           The system LuxMind ®
-           Quantum Psi ®
-           Natural coach
 
Second day:
 
-           Effective coaching
-           Psychological concepts to the business and marketing
-           Coaching for sale
-           Mental Skills
-           Hypnotic communication for business
-           Coach Manager

Hypno-Selling and Gaze for everyday uses  - Charisma enhancement
In this age of ours, man, lost in a frantic quest for material objects and opportunities, turns oblivious to the fact that the true key to power is found inside his own self.
The role played by the expression “Personal Magnetism” in ordinary parlance is to designate that kind of powerful fascination which some individuals exercise over fellow human beings. Without seemingly doing anything special, in fact, this class of individuals arouse sympathy, interest and consideration. Their presence is welcomed, and one almost feels impelled to win over their friendship and earn their good esteem.
Personal influence is an inherent property of man’s indigenous nature. 
The eye represents one of the essential elements of such connatural human property. If, upon surveying the history of past epochs, we were to search for the reasons behind the success achieved by famous men from every age or nation, we would quickly reach the realization that this success always resulted from their ability to magnetically "fascinate" their addressees.
The mere action of looking at someone, without anything further, is charged with meaning. It surely conveys a meaning of interest in such person. In truth, we look more often at the people who interest us or who are to our liking than at the others. Provided the eye is appositely trained, its power will be amplified.
Although each person has in himself the peculiar psychological and mental elements which enable him to impact on his fellow human beings, not every one makes use of such elements to the same degree.
We use the term "persuasive fascination" to denote the practical application of fascination within the context of daily communication.  The most glaring and typical manifestation of “personal power" consists in   the art of persuading 1. The person who holds the keys to that art is readily believed in respect of whatever he says, and evinces a form of hegemony over his fellow human beings. 
In this course we will deal with how to use gaze and non verbal communication to enhance your effectiveness and Charisma.
We will also work with the “hypno-selling” system, a method based on words and other elements as NLP-3 aimed at giving you more capacity of persuading other people.

DURATION (2 days)

The spirit of selling
Working for helping the client solving a problem
How to use effectively your non verbal communication
Enneagram and NLP-3 for selling
Basic of hypno-selling
Non verbal commands
Magnetism and relationships


Real Hypno-Mentalism and Hypno-Magnetism – silent commands and mental control
Real Original Hypno-mentalism: the capability to use trance states to alter the reality a person perceive and have her react in an unconscious way. We use only non verbal communication, few words and obviously the mind. Ancient magnetists realized some very spectacular feats:

“The next experiment was equally successful. The other girl, whom Mr. A. de Constant had also under his influence, was placed while in a waking state with her back to the wall. Mr. de Constant then took me aside, and asked me which part of the subject he should paralyze by his silent will? I wrote down, “La jambe gauche.” He then, standing about two yards from the girl, made an effort of will, after which he told the girl to move about: upon which she moved every limb except her left leg, which had become perfectly rigid. In the same way the girl’s right leg, and then one of her arms, were paralyzed. But the most curious thing was when I desired that the girl’s head might become motionless. It was literally stuck to the wall by the silent will of the Mesmeriser. Her arms, her legs could move, but not her head; so that she could only walk forward as far as the attachment by her head would permit. On forcibly separating her head from the wall, it went back with a stiffness which seemed to me inimitable by voluntary muscular action.”

In our courses we explain these feats. In the future we will even activate a complete course of study in these phenomena. Actually some of these teaching are in the course “train the trainers”

It is a discipline that creates effects that are impressive many times not only for the subject but even for the experimenter.
In real hypno-mentalism we can have contact mind reading, telepathic effects based on the “psychic atmosphere” we create with the subject, reading people based on physiognomy and other elements, and having the subject reaching hypnotically to the non verbal orders of the operator. The subject has always the eyes open and no trance or post hypnotic suggestion is used.
Uses in real life of these skills are in: better understanding people at deeper levels than the verbal one, communicating with the unconscious mind, having reaction to non verbal symbols and intentions.
Hypno-magnetism: enhancing magnetic effects with hypnotic elements. Sometimes we can use hypno-magnetism for clairvoyance, or for healing people. Hypno-magnetism is based on mesmerism and is the basis for some strange effects that can even happen at a distance… It is like a subtle force in action that probably can be explained in quantistic terms, everything is interconnected in the universe, and in some way we touch this deeper level.
In hypno-magnetism we can have distant influence, distant healing, magnetic healing enhanced by hypnotic techniques, clairvoyance etc..
Uses in real life of hypno-magnetism are in: intuition and creativity development, healing, etc…
Real Hypno-mentalism and hypno-magnetism can be allied and combined. Hypnomagnetic responses can trigger hypnomentalistic reactions.


Our goal is both to bring to the present world the knowledge of these powerful techniques in many case almost forgotten, both to empower the practitioner of real abilities and capabilities.
About REAL hypno-mentalism: This is the real stuff… no add ons of other types should be used. It is true that there are some performers that say achieve hypno-mentalism effects, but sometimes they use psychological tricks instead of relying on pure intuition. In this blog we speak instead of the real stuff that has to do with developing our mind potential. Pure and real mental magic. Real Hypno-mentalism should be done without any help of the rational mind. It must be done in the more real and participative way and requires an adequate ambiance, and the effects will be striking!
In fact if you use psychological tricks you activate your cortical responses and  reduce your deeper concentration and will rely on your rationality. Here we delve instead deep inside our mind and we use these exercises as a training for intuition and sensitivity.
The performer should always start from the idea that he will get the effect exactly as previewed. Mind and non verbal communication will create the necessary atmosphere.
We can ally to the aforementioned disciplines the capability of reading the physiognomy and the non verbal communication of a person, in order to better “enter” in him/her

Hermetic Magnetism – Accessing The secret energy of the mind
This course will bring us into the deeper meaning of magnetism
The cages from which it is harder to get out are invisible. They are our fears, insecurities, prejudices. But the keys to the inner freedom are already in our hands, we just need to learn how to use them. Do you want to broaden your horizons? Gain a new awareness of the reality that surrounds us? Make concrete and clear actions for developing the real you during your lifetime?

This course not only shows us that it is possible, but, through many exercises and symbols for a fitness of body and mind, also shows us the path to follow to fully realize all our physical and intellectual potential . It teaches us to relax the muscles and internal organs, to revitalize the breath, to dominate the negative thoughts and compulsions that are detrimental to our health, to detoxify the mind of fixations, to increase our creative power .

The magnetic force that sleeps within us can and must be awakened from its daily trance, which prevents us to gain the happiness and success, but first you need to retrieve an authentic perception of time, rediscover the energy potential of our sexuality lived in all its fullness, shake off the stiffness and tension blockers result of bad habits that finally we will be able to eradicate.
 

DURATION: 1 day and a half

PROGRAM

- The true origin of magnetism
- Western esotericism
- Symbols
- Practice the Egyptian tradition
- Astral travel
- Distant healing
- Distant influence
- Inner alchemy techniques to boost energy and consciousness


PREREQUISITE
Magnetic Path and most of all our course of presence
TRAIN THE TRAINERS

This course pervades a focus on active and experiential training transformational. Here will be shown techniques that increase self-control and the ability to communicate at multiple levels held alongside me nt.
A radical deepening of the technology and techniques of NLP-3 and Non Verbal Communication and an important step for your individual improvement. 
 
INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS
 
The course shall issue the certificate of international TRAINER.
 
FEE:
 
Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €.
 
DURATION
 
One day + personal coaching 
 
First day:
-           Developing the science and art of teaching
-           Method LuxMin d ® for the memory
-           Method LuxMin d ® for fast reading and reading photo
-           Fast reading and development of creativity
-           Advanced linguistic models and metaphors
-           The art of silent control

PERSONAL COACHING:

We will do whatever is necessary to make you a better trainer:
 	-           Learning Strategies
-           Linear thinking and systems thinking
-           Public speaking
-           Voice and look
-           Managing a group
-           Advanced skills of modeling
-           The filters learning
-           Trance and motivation


 
information for PEOPLE  wanting to become A PROFESSIONAL 
 
BECOMING AN OPERATOR 
Our courses aim to form professionals. If you wish, you can also open a center in collaboration or even a chapter or a branch in your country. This is a very good moment for collaborating with the school as we are expanding.  
 
INCLUSION IN THE LISTS OF PROFESSIONAL 
A sure guarantee for the operators is also the inclusion in the 'PROFESSIONAL LISTING”. This LIST will show the professionals and was created for moral protection of real operators. 
Among the results of this commitment we also remember the possibility to collaborate inside CAIRN. 
 
TRAINING AND PRACTICE 
The School allows the possibility of collaboration for students who prove capable. Many teachers have started from being students. The internship is an exciting opportunity to practice for those who want to become operator. This experience allows it to receive advice to improve and become professional. 

INTERNSHIP
We give all information necessary to become an operator.

CONTINUING EDUCATION 
For many years our school has promoted the model of the "Continuing Education "and every certificate issued specifically mentions this need. The school organizes regular moments of continuing education, as well as recognizing professional updates carried out to various institutions. 












iNFORMATIONS ON OUR LINEAGES
Dr Paret’s teaching stay on the shoulders of giants as he personally researched and met the most powerful magnetists and fascinators existing. He was also initiated in various groups that continued the old tradition  
Mesmerismus ©  and Campanelli’s system: our lineage connects directly to Campanelli for the stop smoking system. Dr Paret was the person that personally brought to the world the Campanellli’s method for stopping smoking in 55 seconds. Campanelli’s fame, punctuated by astounding results and corroborated by unimpeachable testimonies, appears to be truly unassailable. His is an unbelievable, amazing, unparalleled case, which has been studied by worldwide famous scientific celebrities, who have analyzed the phenomenon of his person and sealed their reports by stating the following: <<The relevant facts are true, and yet they are devoid of any plausible explanations in terms of ordinary therapeutic techniques>>2.  Formerly an advocate practicing from his study in central Rome and an inveterate smoker, Campanelli, following a meeting with Hermann Michel, was so impressed by the fact he had succeeded in quitting smoking that he wanted to learn Michel’s magnetic and hypnotic techniques. He eventually became, in his own right, a healer specialized in removing the bad habit of smoking from fellow humans. The roster of his patients, both Italians and foreigners, include the following: The winner of the Nobel Prize for peace Shimon Peres, King Hussein of Jordan, Margareth von Trotta, Maurizio Costanzo, Mariangela Melato, Bruno Zevi, Margherita Boniver, and Maurizio Ferrara.
Fascination and Hypno-Magnetism: dr Paret is a disciple of Prof. Erminio Di Pisa. Prof. Erminio di Pisa was a person marked by exceptional charm and energy. He specialized in instant hypnosis and in instant healing especially. He was also a medium (= a psychic). Though he lived and worked in Milan, he travelled abroad as well. He was for instance in South Korea following an invitation. Therein, he carried out experiments which drew a large crowd of people interested in them. He chaired the Astrological Association of the Light since 1973, and acted as director of the Centre of Instant Hypnosis. At the age of 14, he fully devoted himself to the study of hypnotic techniques. He has hypnotized more than 250.000 persons. For several years, both the Italian state-owned radio and television have shown us his parapsychic exploits: Collective hypnosis of a theatre audience, distance paranormal healing, announcing the final result of the “Corsa Tris”, a horseracing event, fifteen minutes before it even started, and so on.
Mesmer. The method elaborated by F. A. Mesmer allows healing to take place quite rapidly, especially when a group is formed and symbols are utilized. 
Many techniques come from the lineage Mesmer ? Puysegur ?Du Potet ? Durville  . Historically speaking, magnetism after Mesmer continued with Puysegur and his disciple Baron du Potet, whose pioneering efforts were then taken further by the Durville brothers. The Durville brothers founded a secret order and we continue directly some of their techniques.
Fascination: our lineage comes from Virgilio T. and Donato. Virgilio, one of the persons who inspired us the most in the field of animal magnetism, is capable of instantly fascinating another person. Donato is a historically significant powerful character who inspired tens of individuals and experimenters, and who transformed the way animal magnetism was perceived during the previous century. He would fascinate through the look, and he impressed the whole of Europe due to his incredible ability. His opponents, too, had to bow to his mastery. Though we are unable to prove it, there might even be a direct link between the said two individuals, given the far-reaching similarities in their methods of work. Donato, after all, performed for a long time in Turin, a city where he was even subjected to a scholarly examination by the renowned Professor Morselli, who authored a book about him. Virgilio’s own master likewise lived only a few kilometers away from Turin, and he might well have learnt some techniques from one of Donato’s students. What is certain is the existence of a high degree of mutual similarities in terms of techniques and approaches, so much so that the book “Fascination Magnétique”, written and inspired by Donato, might have equally been produced by our master Virgilio Torrizzano.
Presence: our lineage comes from a school of presence of Nice and J.P. de Giudicelli (Rose Cross and other groups)
Hermeticism: we have connection to various ancient groups that we are not authorized to publicise on a booklet for the vaster public but we will answer to direct emails. 
Question and Answers

What does it means an International Approach to the Inner Development and to the research?

Most people coming in Europe or in Cairn seat in Nepal do not have the possibility of the in-depth exploration of the ancient and esoteric knowledge. Even for people living in situ is difficult to approach some subjects. Our goal is to advance the research in this field the world, and also to create a network of people interested in a global approach. When you come to our trainings, you have the possibility to reach new knowledge under the guidance of people knowing the different traditions.

The reason for International researches

The field of Personal development is strongly affected by the different kind of cultures. But there is even something similar between cultures. Our goal is to help you to find these elements, and for this aim we have created our international network putting together east and west, old and new, in the quest of the most effective and most interesting elements, and maintaining all ties to the real lineages.
TEAM OF ISI-CNV Researchers
Dr. Marco Paret ??? Direttore dell’ISI-CNV 
Founder and director of ISI-CNV, speaks various languages 
Site http://marco-paret.pnl-3.com/



Prof. Aldo Setti

Comunication Professor at Università Telematica Guglielmo Marconi di Roma.
 

Sito www.aldosetti.com

Prof. Giuliano Capani


Prof. At University of Salento. Expert in tarantism.

Sito www.giulianocapani.info  


Prof. René William Leon

Cairn Coordinator in Nepal

 www.dzogchen.ws





Collaborating with René William Leon :
CENTRAL STAFF (ISI-CNV):
Dr. Marco Paret NLP Master Trainer , Cht - Director
Dr. William Rene Leon Ph. D. - Director of Cairn, Co-director  ISI-CNV/Asia 
Prof. J.Pierre Giudicelli Ph. D. - Professor for ancient tradition studies
NEPAL INSTITUTIONAL COLLABORATION ( Network ):
CAIRN (Nepal) / ISI-CNV Branch Institute in Nepal (Kathmandu),
St- Xavier's Social Services,
St- Xaviers Campus,
Kunphen Tibetan Clinic,
Kailash Tibetan Clinic,
Dr. Jampa Tibetan Clinic,
Shechen Gompa Holistic Clinic,
Tamang Shamans Healing Network,
RECID NGO (Ethnomedicine),
Dr. Tsering Clinic (TB, PHC),
and several other I/NGOs and NGOs,
INDIA COLLABORATION (affiliated with Cairn Network) :
CIHTS (Benares/Sarnath),
ITTM ( Sikkim),
HHDL Tibetan Medical and Astro Institute (Dharamsala),
Amchi Jampa (Sikkim),
Amchi Trogawa Rimpoche (Sikkim),
TIBETAN COLLABORATION (Resources in Tibet/TAR China)
Men-Tsee-Khan (Lhasa)

Dr. E. Massone
Acupuncturist. He works in Nice


Prof Jean Pierre Giudicelli 
Professor. One of the most experienced experts in presence in the world 

 
Other University Professors participating in  CAIRN
 researches
Prof. Mike Singleton, UCL LAAP

Prof. Ian Clegg, SWA U CDS UK


 Prof. HMJ, SWA U DACE e-Learning

Some Sites

Italian Website, other sites and site of dr. Paret

Italian site: www.neurolinguistic.com
Personal page of dr. Paret: http://marco-paret.pnl-3.com/ 
MESMERISMUS Website: http://www.mesmerismus.info
Free resources: http://www.pnl-nlp.org/dn/
Some digital books:  http://www.neurolinguistic.com/pnl/scannedebooks/pagesneurolin.htm 

ISI-CNV and CAIRN IN NEPAL

CAIRN AND INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY: www.dzogchen.ws

Other useful LINKS


NLP-3 in London: www.nlp-london.co.uk 
INTERNATIONAL SITE: www.nlp4all.org 

AFEM AND ATOUM CIRCLES

SINAPE http://www.sinape-cisl.it/ 
AFEM: http://www.neurolinguistic.com/esoterika/afem.htm 
CERCLES ATOUM: www.cerclesatoum.com



