This site is a site of secret techniques.
That is to say very powerful techniques but whose real system has never been disseminated
We have rediscovered the most powerful techniques for human development by bringing them to light with the most recent discoveries about man and his potentials.
Give a look into the past? what about all these word-based techniques that we use today?
Ancient hypnotists hypnotized without words and very quickly
And in addition, if you read the old books, you see that some old hypnotists were much more efficient than the current ones!
Mental Suggestion, Telesthesis and many other facts were very common and documented in books.
There's a secret down there.
Modern hypnosis techniques use the word, but the results of the ancients were achieved without words, and it is impossible to fully describe in words a system that is basically non-verbal.
That's why this site is born?
We are connected to the original magnetic tradition and we invite you to learn the only and true original magnetic and fascination techniques!
You can read our story by clicking here
What we teach is a powerful and comprehensive system that connects the hypnotist's inner preparation with energy building and rejuvenation techniques.
You also learn morphophysiognomics to understand people and their psychology, the same way we operated in ancient Greece to admit people into the esotheric paths!
Why are these techniques useful?


 You learn to hypnotize WITHOUT WORDS. Modern Hypnosis has developed a lot with words. In addition, working with these techniques will be much easier than ? through verbal techniques. We teach you moreover? connect the powerful knowledge of the past with the most modern techniques of hypnosis and NLP today


  The person who searches will discover new possibilities of knowing the paranormal, as well as the possibility of developing their inner energy. You will directly experience what is called quantum reality.


  People interested in business can learn the power of the gaze as well as that of REAL MAGNETISM to obtain what they want in life. You will learn ? grow without limits


  And everyone will learn rejuvenation techniques that improve inner organs.