Quantum Alchemy draws on the concept of alchemy linked to the law of attraction connected through quantum science interpreted in metaphorical. To get results in quantum alchemy non verbal hypnosis and body perception is the key. We try always to go to the non-verbal self that is in direct contact with the universe. We represent the paradygm of quantum alchemy with the tetraktys. Ten points. On first boottom line we have 4 points corresponding to dimensions of perception (the explicate level) that correspond both to the elements as well to different parts of the brain as in the HBDI (Hermann Brain Dominance Profile). Fire = HBDI visual i.e. Logical and focalising. Air = HBDI spatial and thinking new stuff. Water = Hbdi kynesthetical = emotions = inner feelings. Earth = Hbdi verbal = sensorial = procedural. First point corresponding to fire: for us connects to focalising reality and visual. The observer creates reality. Technique to be free: let go excessive focus looking at a mirror or using eye hypnotic fascination. This exercise brings to master you as observer. Next is the point of Air. Air is spatial conceptualizing = creating mental entities and images. Technique: do hypnotic relaxing, let's go of boundaries just observe everything is in space and boundaries are all observer created. Other technique: use hypnotic fascination to enlarge the gaze. Other technique: Look at a light (better a real light). It will create in your visual neurons the maximum possible excitation and block the frontal lobes conscious mind. Insert now an idea with a mantra. Closing the eyes the mind will let go old concepts and after a minute open up to freer realities you will have more ideas and unconscious transformation. 3rd is water (in HBDI Kynesthetical) that correpond to the dimension of emotions and inner feelings, Quantum concept: Mass = Energy. For us emotion is like a mass that is biochemical energy. Technique to freedom is letting go energy, creating hypnotically free movement. Something similar to bioenergetic release of Lowen coupled with hypnosis. Finally we have Earth - verbal definitions names and words. Quantum concept: everything interpenetrates each other. Just use sensations of your body. It is as in some hypnotic techniques where you focalize on the body. A mindfulness bodycentered. As in HDBI some people is stronger in one level. In quantum term we say we couls say we collapse the dimensions. But our techniques let go and create harmony that we feel as essence. Essence is our first perception of non verbal self beyond judgements. Here after the four elements we are at the pentalfa corresponding to the energy of the self at following line of the tetraktys. This line has 3 points = 3 elements of non-verbal self: 1: pure physical perception (the salt), 2 and 3 our staying in the world as observer (corresponding to alchemical sulphur) of an observed reality (corresponding to alchemical mercury). These 3 elements are the parts of our non verbal self. Technique to go further past observer observed brings connection to Universe. technique to do it: look yourself in the mirror where the observer is the observed, and breath to increaese energy. It creates also a parasympathetic reaction. It lets go the search and scan of the sympathetic nervous system and at the same way the observer observed reality. The hermetic marriage happens. This technique brings to a perception where the I doenst exist more. Here we are in contact with the implicate level and we arrive to the third line of the tetraktys, corresponding to the hermetic caduceus or "exalted mercury". Here we will have clairvoyance. And if we merge with the pure non verbal body perception we arrive to a non locality where syncronicities can happen called "magnesia" because we attract things or "Harmoniac salt" because we are in harmony. At this level we are near enlightment. For enlightment we must continue with body perception and aligning between earth and sky.