Practicing magnetism demands a specific attitude of the mind and the spirit. You will find that meditating on the following aphorisms will help you develop that attitude:


Aphorisms which are useful for Mesmerismus ©


Aphorisms on Simplicity


The key lies in the simple, not in the difficult


In order for us to be active, we have to perfect simplicity


The simple triumphs over the too intelligent 


The non-verbal is inborn and simple, while the verbal needs to be learnt and is complex 


Magnetism is simple, and precisely for that reason it cannot prove easy to one whose mind is complex. The person who is too intelligent fails to understand it.


Aphorisms on acting consciously


The simpler the hypnosis, the more direct it will be in producing results


Work on the width rather than on the quantity -
Make simplicity perfect


It is the awareness of an action which gives birth to an effective action 


Always work in accordance with this rule: There are no repetitions in Nature – There are only new beginnings.


Nature’s way


Whoever is too complex cannot comprehend the simple things 


The key lies in Nature. Animal magnetism means a magnetism which is in touch with Nature


Magnetism is natural. All it needs is to be learnt afresh.


The quality of “not knowing”


When we operate magnetically, we should grant us the change “not to know”. As Lao- Tse says: “Knowing that you do not know is a great thing, while thinking that you know is a disease”.


Aphorisms on how to steer Thought


Energy follows thought as its subordinate. We create our own reality. It benefits, therefore, to be immersed in a reality where what we desire is possible. Excessive materialism is in truth a limit which prevents the possibilities of our spirit from soaring 


We are the makers of our own reality. Let us then choose to create a reality where certain things are possible


This is the metaphor of the swimmer: If he believes he can stay afloat he will stay afloat, and if he thinks he is going to drown he will drown. In the same manner, if you believe yourselves capable of practicing magnetism, you will in fact be able to do so, as otherwise you will be denied that chance.


If the universe gifts you something which you fail to acknowledge and you thus turn it down, it is by no means guaranteed that such gift will come back or that the universe is going to hand it to you in the form you prefer. Placing ourselves in the position of welcoming the gifts which the Universe bestows on us is the key. Magnetism is one of those gifts 


Believe and will (Puysegur)


Do not bring thought into your being. Rather take it to reality.


Aphorisms on the Body


The density of words is lower than the density of gestures. The self is primarily verbal, whereas one's inward identity is primarily non-verbal. The body is non-verbal


The more one is in touch with his own self, the greater is the ensuing state of balance going to be. Taking back possession of our body will lead us back to our own selves  


The non-verbal is denser than the verbal


Whatever the mind truly wills will be done by the body 


Aphorisms on Energy


Magnetism is born when you have something you know you can bring out. It is born when you have a surplus of nervous potential.
Other Aphorisms


More aphorisms on the subject of “not thinking”


Thinking is the activity of the exterior self. It ends up being no more than an inner dialogue which delays and conceals the self-perception which, on the contrary, knows what to do and how to do it  


It is preferable not to think and to do 


One would do better to concentrate on doing than on doing well 


Aphorisms on Energy


Energy is natural. What is unnatural is not to feel it, but the truth is that modern man lives an unnatural life and must therefore learn how to feel it all over again 


The wise man is the master of his own attention, just as the undeveloped man is its slave 


Magnetism is linked to a surplus of vitality. A 70 year old man might have greater vitality than a youth of 20


Whoever searches shall not find, and whoever finds searches for nothing
Energy is. Whoever lacks knowledge searches around, but he is foolish, as he cannot see in front of his nose. Accordingly, he finds nothing, and will never find anything by searching. Whoever finds is in no need of searching. He simply feels and acts 


Energy follows thought as its subordinate 
If you try you shall not succeed, as you will ultimately disperse energy in the process of putting yourself to the test. The sage simply does.


Self and essential being


The ego or “self” is our outer mask. Beyond the self, one's inward being is to be found. All the work consists in accessing the essential inward being, which should have mastery over the self  
The self imagines, but one’s inward being knows  


The self might even be able to imagine, yet is the inward being who knows 
Whoever lacks knowledge thinks without acting – as for the one who knows, he acts without thinking 


The self is chiefly verbal
One’s inward being is mostly non-verbal


The inward being hypnotizes while the self observes 


The inward being is an impulse, and energy moves on pursuant to impulses


As the inward being is animal, the hypnosis we practice, too, must be animal in nature


Real man contains two realities 
One person wishes while the other does 


The secret is in less, not in more 


Words and non-verbal reality
The fool clings to words. Words are superstitions and only work because of our belief in them. The wise man is in need of no words 


Words fragment reality. Whoever lives in words lives in the realm of the virtual. The one who enters the non-verbal dimension is denser. He who is denser will triumph and penetrate inside a less dense medium.


Reproducing, Mirroring and Magnetism


Mirroring is the product of magnetism, while the converse is untrue  


The purpose behind “mirroring” is to send the dispersed energy back.


The mirror


By the mirror, con-vincing means to win together 
If the mirror wins, you, too, shall win, as you will be convinced 


Conquering one’s emotions


Emotion is but a degenerate form of energy


Virgilio’s Aphorisms


The fruit will not fall down unless you first shake the tree  
Hypnosis is so simple that even a 14 year old boy is able to understand it 


How can you claim to know if you do not do what you want?


You should avoid giving voluntary answers. Rather, let your body answer unconsciously.


Reality and appearance


Reality is simply what one imagines. Life is a movie house, and the mirror is the symbol of it  
Life is a movie house and a playful game of mirrors. By means of the mirror, we might succeed in rebuilding our conviction


There is no hypnotist, only hypnotism


Energy is the subordinate follower of thought


Ignorance triumphs over excessive wisdom  
No one really knows what hypnotism is  
The wise man knows that he does not know, and wins precisely because of that  


The Will


In order to be truly what its name indicates, will demands some goal for itself  
True will is in full unity with Nature’s will


The sage does not try. He succeeds because he acts naturally


The gaze
Energy go where attention goes, and attention goes where eyes go


Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) concerning Mesmerismus ©


Why do you use the name Mesmerismus ©?
Mesmerismus © is a registered name. We use it so as not to be confused with the concept of mesmerism, and so as to confer a stamp of quality and originality on what we are doing. Our mesmerismus © re-establishes connection with Nature


Why this school is unique?
Our school is the main source for these techniques. Before the moment in which dr. Paret diffused these traditions of gaze fascination and true mesmerism there was nothing. Only scattered and individual traditions. We know it because we searched for it on the internet and everywhere. There was nobody diffusing this type of information on the internet as we do know before us, both in west as in east. Nobody teaching these techniques. Only after our revelations, people began to rediscover magnetism and mesmerism. So we can truly say that everything you find in these field is derived from us. And we have still all the connections to the original lineages and we can therefore give to our student the possibility to reach the higher levels.


What is fascination?
Fascination is the power of the gaze. If were not for the reasearches of dr. Paret and Max Tira, the methodology for using it rightly had been lost. Dr. Paret and Max Tira got in contact with Virgilio T.,  a master fascinator of the past, became their students and got this powerful technique


Is mesmerismus © a form of mental control?
The first mental control which is required in the practice of magnetism is the control over our own selves. The concept is identical to the one which is used by those martial arts having as their aim the attainment of self-mastery. As Lao-Tse has said: “Whoever beats other people is strong, but whoever beats his own self is truly powerful”. In order to attain results, the focus must stay on mastering one’s own energy. In actual fact, the mesmeric practitioner hypnotizes himself with a view to hypnotizing the person he is dealing with.  Students that have a specific interest can even go further. They can be admitted to an ancient and very secret hermetic tradition of self development with Egyptian origins. So they can prosecute the Path and attain higher levels not only on their subjects, but even on themselves . 


What is the relationship between mesmerismus © and Neuro-Linguistic Programming?
 Neuro-Linguistic Programming might be complementary to our discipline, but the departure point is different. Neuro-Linguistic Programming is founded on the concept of a “dominant channel”, whereas magnetism, being the way of gaining access to the sixth sense, to the so-called quintessence, to true intuition and magnetic strength, can only emerge after one has equally developed the other five channels. 
In other seminars we present a discipline that goes beyond classical NLP, called NLP 3 and was conceived by dr. Paret.  It is very practical for organization and relationship consulting. It is based on quantum principles and on a central direction of development


What is the relationship between mesmerismus © and quantum techniques?
There is quite a close connection indeed. Nay, modern quantum concepts are actually strengthened by mesmerismus ©. That is so, in particular, of the concept of entanglement, which has a strict correspondence with what we can ascertain during the so-called “magnetic action”, which is an action that can even take place at a distance. Dr. Paret participates in a network of researchers on quantum disciplines.


How can magnetism complement verbal hypnosis?
Hypnosis as currently practiced is essentially verbal. Magnetism and mesmerismus © are non-verbal. Words are endowed with a lower density than gestures. What is non-verbal is denser than the verbal. The self, the ego, is primarily verbal, whereas one’s inward being is mostly non-verbal. The body is non-verbal. The more one is in touch with one’s essential inward identity, the greater is the balance which is thus established. Repossessing the body is the path leading one back to his essential being. 
This is something that for the western man sometimes is difficult to understand. Dr, Paret has therefore developed a specific method to help people to go in this direction. The methods works very well because we see many of our students practicing with efficacity.
Note how the body and the non verbal are also the basis for higher states as it was stated by the ancient hermetists:
"This body, a mere eight hands tall, comprises the world, is the creation of the world, the end of the world and the path that leads to the resolution of the world" (Pernety)
these words strongly complement the Tabula Smaragdina: 
"That which is above is as that which is below, and that which is below is as that which is above, for the performance of the miracles of the one thing"


In which field is mesmerismus © particularly effective?
Whenever hypnosis is resorted to, magnetism has the ability of amplifying its effect. What is different, however, is that the approach which mesmerismus © takes pays great regard to the body, and undoubtedly operates at a more subliminal level than classical hypnosis. As for the speed at which results materialize, results might be within closer reach due to the fact that the non-verbal is denser than the verbal, as the latter follows the speed of words. We strive always to provide the most simple, rapid and effective techniques in the world.


How are these techniques able to uplift hypnosis?
The simpler the hypnosis, the more immediately effective it becomes. The non-verbal is simpler than the verbal. The primary reality is indeed the non-verbal reality. 


How can an ordinary person perceive mesmerismus ©?
Each person has a body. The key, as far as many people are concerned, lies in recovering the bodily perception which so many people deny to themselves. The truth is that all the patients are very happy about the therapies, and they invariably record excellent results.


We have witnessed in the past some people who opposed mesmerismus © . Why was that so?
Those are opinions which date back to 200 years ago, and which were in any event expressed by people who were not practitioners of it. We are unable to witness, throughout history, individuals accustomed to practicing mesmerismus © (c) professionally who happened to be dissatisfied with the results achieved through it. Magnetism is simple, and it is precisely for this reason that one whose mind is complex, the type of man, that is, who is excessively intelligent, fails to understand it. A simple person is better equipped to understand mesmerismus © than a scientist who eschews every effort to work on his own self and discover his true essence. In other words, the more one progresses in the field of external knowledge, the more he distances himself from the comprehension of matters which are not in need of being learned, only of being heard. 
In any event, apart from its opponents, it would be fitting to mention the supporters of mesmerismus © as well. There have in fact always been people of the highest caliber and intelligence, such as Hegel and Schopenhauer, who had by contrast positively embraced such discipline.
Even when dr. Paret proposed mesmerism again to the western world for the first time there were attacks but after results could’nt be denied 


Why does one refer to “animal magnetism”?
Magnetism is something natural. Animals, too, possess it. The more man, who is part and parcel of nature, establishes harmony with it, the greater his capability to accomplish his goals. It is, moreover, through the acceptance of his animal part, which in any event exists in him, and the concomitant acceptance of his very basic sensibility, that he can fully become human. The world magnetism is very appropriate. Even the concepts of “law of attraction” resort to magnetism as magnetism and attraction are the same concept


Why should we not simply call it hypnosis making use of the chi or hypnosis by prana, as opposed to “animal magnetism”?
Those two names might be equally valid variants. The “fluid” which Mesmer speaks of is the same as the prana and the chi of the Eastern nations. The problem is that too many people among those who practice disciplines where one works with energies “imagine” energy instead of “feeling” it. Imagining might actually be useful on some occasions, but only at an initial stage. Once such stage is passed, one necessarily has to feel energy. The word “animal” might prove to be of benefit in order to arrive at a more essential perception. Animals do not imagine, and they are in addition more sensitive to energies. Let us also bear in mind, in this context, the concept to the effect that the self must give in to one's essential inward individuality (which is likewise animal per se). The ability to truly feel has been admirably articulated by Master Lao-Tse in his Tao Te King: “The masters of yore were free, clairvoyants, intuitive: Within the vast expanse of their spirit’s forces, the Self still lay unconscious: It was this unconsciousness of the interior force which conferred greatness on their appearance". Also there is a different approach and framework in western practices and eastern practices. As in our school we present both, we know very well the differences and similitudes.
I watched a video which showed a person acting as if he were an automat guided by some remote control  
It is indeed true that one can obtain extremely powerful results through the use of  magnetism. Due, however, to the fact that, when we practice it, we establish contact with the foundational part of our own selves, no risks are incurred. Throughout the history of the discipline, there is no record attesting to the occurrence of negative cases.


Is magnetism based on an emphatic relationship?
We might say that, quite frequently, magnetism does establish a close rapport. We might even go as far as stating that the two terms are indistinguishable, inasmuch as the term emphatic relationship refers to the communicative level, whereas the word magnetism relates to a different level of the same reality which is definable, if one has recourse to quantum terminology, to correlation (or more precisely, entanglement).


What is the purpose of magnetic “passes”?
The governing principle is the following: Energy follows attention as its subordinate. The passes and the movements thus guide the attention in focusing not just on the patient but also on the operator. They have the effect of steering attention, and, thus, of steering the energy as well.
It is in any event possible to practice mesmerismus © even without magnetic steps.


Does a fluid truly exist?
The fluid represents “vital energy”. In Eastern disciplines, it is called either prana or chi. But it is important not to stay in words or concepts. What is important is to feel. The fluid is linked to the relevant person's vitality. Whoever recognizes it will be able to recognize life. It serves no benefit to discuss what it actually is. What matters is that one should recognize it. When it comes to knowing what it actually is, we are legitimately entitled to follow what Lao-Tse has to say: “Knowing not to know is the quality of the sage. Thinking that we know is a disease”. We do not actually know what this reality we call fluid, which is moreover augmented by developing one’s consciousness, precisely amounts to. 


Is mesmerismus © a form of placebo?
As regards energy and its effects, there are actually several studies attesting to the contrary. In any event, it should be additionally stressed that mesmerismus © is not just energy. One part of it becomes blurred with what we call by the name hypnosis. If we are inclined to regard hypnosis as a placebo, then that one part of mesmerismus ©, too, is placebo, albeit one displaying effects which are not attainable through traditional or Ericksonian forms of hypnosis, at least not at the same level of consistency and consciousness. 


Does one have to believe in something in order for him to practice mesmerismus ©?
The first results might be obtained even without believing in any thing, but it is indisputable that having a positive belief does ultimately generate the hoped for result.
We should once again remember here that energy follows thought as its subordinate, and we therefore create our own reality. It might in such case be useful to be steeped in a reality where it is possible to achieve results which would otherwise not be attainable. In order to make ourselves even clearer, we would like to point out that a materialistic discipline will never be able to accomplish certain results which are achievable through  magnetism, as any such discipline already sets limits on its scope by defining itself as materialistic, and thereby negating other possibilities which are not empirically measurable.


Why it the gaze so important?
Energy go where attention goes, and attention goes where eyes go


How can one define a person as being “magnetic”?
The path developed in our school is very useful for developing personal magnetism and charisma. Contrary to the prevailing idea, magnetism has no need to impose any thing. In actual fact, it obtains things naturally. A magnetic person adopts a communicative position which suits the relevant situation. He neither guides nor follows. Rather, he decides what to do. If we so wish, we might give a better explanation of that by borrowing the words of  Lao-Tse: “The wise man is free from preferences and prejudices. He is rather strong in his innermost being. Therefore he leads, without either being aware of such fact or even having a desire for it”.


Additional FAQ (more technical)


Do you make use of mesmeric tools such as the bacquet?
The bacquet was a method which used to be resorted to so as to reawaken magnetism and as well as our receptiveness to take in vital energy. Other methods, which are their equivalent in principle and yet are more suitable to our present times, might consist in being immersed in a natural environment, in being, that is, in contact with Nature
It is possible to carry out showbiz experiments by using mesmerismus ©? 
The answer would undoubtedly be in the affirmative. We know that there plentiful persons who do dislike the idea of therapeutic means being exposed in public.  An identical consideration applies to hypnosis used as a form of spectacular show, a phenomenon which is not to every body’s liking. As a matter of fact, however, the public exhibitions of hypnosis do increase interest in the subject, given the fact that in our modern age the way an issue is spoken about it not as important as the extent to or the frequency by which it is debated.
The data show nevertheless that every professional hypnotist notices an increase in the number of his patients in the aftermath of a hypnosis show which somebody else has conducted. In any case, however, and quite regardless of the opinion one might subjectively entertain, if a person dislikes seeing a pain being removed or a person being healed, then any such thought cannot but derive from his prejudice. Despite that, the greater the number of people who see themselves as having being healed and living better, which is something a person blessed by luck might experience on his own self, the more is it possible to understand the validity of the Art.


Can mesmerismus © induce a person to fall into a state of dependence on another individual?
No. It is undeniable that in the induced state one can detect a state of extreme and powerful sympathy being established between the magnetic and the patient he is magnetizing. This is in fact one of the oddest phenomena. The sensibility which is engendered is such that one of the two individuals might be able to feel the sensations of the other. The existing feeling, however, resembles more the one which prevails between two female twins than anything else. It is thus no accident that studies have been carried out for the sake of understanding the resemblance with states which have been shown by observation to exist between twins.
It is this feeling which ensures the materialization of the operator’s vitality and his desire to occasion wellbeing in his patient. Be it as it may, the connection is one between two unconscious sides, between two inward beings, and the inward being is more knowledgeable about what a person wants than the external, egotistic self.


How is it possible to measure magnetism empirically?
It cannot be doubted that instances of healing do occur. Even the most obstinate opponents of mesmerism in the past have never denied that significant improvements had been brought about through its practice. Jussieu himself, prior to the establishment of the first French commission on the subject, spoke of indisputable “tonic and salutary” effects.
There are several researchers who have undertaken studies on the subject of the existence or otherwise of a human energy and its effects. These studies are interrelated with those which have been conducted on the efficacy of prayer or the whole field of paranormal activities in general. The circumstance that a number of serious scientists have concerned themselves with the issue, and even gone as far as writing books on it, already represents an interesting point. Not a single one of the scientists who in his finding had verified the existence of concrete results ever changed his opinion subsequently. As a norm, experiments are very difficult to bring off in this field, inasmuch as the effects of a superior wellbeing produced by magnetism are the consequential result of increased vitality, which might be translated as a combination of vitality, serenity and happiness that has been brought about by its practice. Measuring magnetism is like attempting to reach some unequivocal measurement of a person’s happiness. 
Present-day science is not only unable to measuring these concepts, but even to define them.
There are in any event hundreds of documented cases of positive results having been obtained and of successful healing having occurred since the times of Esdaile. It might be more useful to concern ourselves with what works rather than to spend time seeking to unravel the mechanisms of how it works.
How can present-day science measure concepts, that pertain to consciousness and science is not even able to define?


________________
Eastern and western approach
Do you use in mesmerism something similar to the chakra system?
The answer is definitively yes. But the methodology is different. Modern human being must firstly stop his concentration on the mind if he want to enter them. It is less important to find the individual point and it is more important to understand that they are different way of being and perceiving. 
The practitioner must discover them instead of learning them. In magnetism there are three main center of action (poles) that must be activated. Already working on the three is sufficient for most therapeutical purposes. This is done in our magnetic path. Working with presence and doing the exercises of this path will help to discover the other four. Activation for higher purposes will be done in a spiral order that is more efficient for the modern western human being. 


How is the situation in Orient about magnetism and mesmerism?
Magnetism was traditionally known in India, as even Esdaile noted. But the applications and some methods were different  and Esdaile opened a Mesmeric clinic in Calcutta that was pretty successful.


What are the advantages for an oriental practitioner of magnetic healing arts in following your seminar?
It is a different tradition, that can learn here from the source, and can be very complimentary to his work. Mesmerismus © is a very efficient method for all the modern ailments of the human being.
 
________________
What is the Campanelli’s method?
We are the original diffusors of this methods and we have many documents about it. Dr. Paret truly outlined and can be considered the co-father of it, as without his intervention the method had been lost… and now the method is trendin