-Why do you learn mesmerism?
 Because it works



-Is mesmerism a kind of mind control?
The operator  isn't a powerful dominant taking total control over his subject's mind. It isn't a kind of withcraft. Authoritarian or Permissive methods have many variations. Approaches will change based upon uniqueness of situations.Overall experience and training greatly influences the work. Mesmerism is an art form.


-Is there a higher  success rate with mesmeric/gaze inductions than with normal verbal hypnotic techniques? 

Mesmerism works immediatly. Magnetic passes are the most soft and spiritual experience you can live. You can feel in real contact with your partner's soul and mind into few  seconds. Mesmerism doesn't use words, but mental suggestions.
A mental suggestion is purely telepathic  and does not need the body language or congruence or responsiveness. The result is deep and fast. It is accepted by the client immediately, like something completely natural. In "classic" verbal hypnosis client resistance could be a problem. Using this method, client's energy increases the strenght of mesmerism and this makes everything easier. Dipisa method is a very efficient way of inducing trance with fascination and getting results in a matter of seconds.

-How long do you normally take to perform an induction? 

Few seconds . You have to remember this is a practical field and unlike verbal hypnosis it requires attention to detail. It depends on the client.


-What is instant fascination? How does it work?

This technique has the ability to immediately eradicate physical pains, muscular tensions, headaches, tinnitus, and a whole assortment of additional ailments. Here it goes a short history of its discovery.
We owe this methodology to Erminio from Pisa, who was accustomed to call it “Instant Hypnosis”. He was the only practitioner throughout Italy. Once, he gave us an astounding demonstration of it in the presence of three hundred people in Milan. He did so by working on each of those persons in attendance for some twenty seconds, thereby producing results which in most cases endured through the following days, while in other instances they actually proved conclusive in their effect. In certain cases, a single intervention is enough to engender a permanent result. In other instances, it is necessary to apply the technique twice or thrice in a row, whereupon a more than highly satisfactory overall percentage of 98% of healed people will be actualized. At our institute, we keep a number of videos which corroborate what we have stated in this connection.  
The methodology is rather easy. After we have caused the patient to indicate to you where he is experiencing pain, we fix him intensely so as to fascinate him, for the explicit purpose of taking him “beyond the point”, that is, beyond rigid positions and mental habits which represent the sum-total of his personal problems.
At some stage, one feels intuitively that the patient’s pain has vanished. He is then woken up by a simple rapid knock of the hand over his shoulder.  
The most positive aspect of it all is that the person is feeling better!
That seems impossible to the person who is merely watching. From a technical point of view, it is on the contrary very natural. The pains and the other problems we have referred to represent “fixed realities”. The moment we look at the subject, we settle his attention upon some other space. We would say that we are now in direct contact with the unconscious, if we wished to borrow Erickson’s terminology. The unconscious, indeed, always works for the person’s wellbeing and in his interest. 
We are not dealing here with some mere hypnotic suggestion, so much so that on some occasions (albeit rarely) it is necessary to operate two or three times before “the right moment can be grabbed”. If it had been no more than a suggestion, the third attempt would be bound to emulate what happened to the previous ones. As that is not the case, however, it means we have actually guided our patient to a new life dimension.
A key aspect of the look-centred therapy is letting ourselves be observed and observing in turn the patient while we give him a chance to recollect the state that caused him problems. Thereupon, we shall lead the person into a state of fascination without any recourse to words. Such method, indeed, allows us to transport him into a state of “non-thinking” where the symptom disappears. It is the equivalent of resetting the mind. 
Within that context, for a period of time that might last longer or otherwise, the fascinated person attains a state which is devoid of consciousness of the “ego”, that is, the totality of our mind and our automatic mental programs.
The person concerned would then be “beyond the trance”. The Fascination which is carried out on a person is indisputably something that acts at an ocular level, by creating a kind of “trance” for the subject on whom one is operating.
However, we are in a state of trance even in other situations. We might for example be captivated by objects or by persons, or even by our thoughts in which we drown. The majority of people is indeed totally gripped, “fascinated" by their own mental mechanisms. This is the reason why the same mechanisms are invariably reiterated, and why the problem is preserved and perpetuated. 
By means of the look, we thus intervene in the very mechanisms which produce the “fascination” by means of ideas or concepts that beset the subject via these mechanisms themselves. 
There is yet another way of proceeding: This second method consists in contacting the symptoms directly.
The process is termed by some people “curing through the symptom”. Through the patient’s total concentration on his symptom, in fact, we can carve out a path allowing us to talk with that part of the brain which generates such symptom. We thereby give effect to a mechanism which some healers have already resorted to, namely, "utilizing the crisis as a cure".1 What at that point helps the efficacy and, in particular, the rapidity of the process, is the re-enactment of the problem itself. As stated by Rossi (1986), "by asking the patient to experience the symptom (alternatively, even by increasing it, as was for instance Erickson’s wont), we are probably switching on certain processes in the right  hemisphere which are gifted with a more  immediate access to the encoding of the problem that is related to the state itself ".2
A further scientific support for this theory and the useful benefit of re-enacting the symptom, to be immediately followed by a state of “void” where such symptom is no longer extant, being a result that can be achieved through fascination by the look, is provided by a research in the US we are going to make mention of. It is proven in this research that it is indeed possible to eradicate traumas without needing to intervene through a drug, opting instead to “write once more” over such trace of the memory and erase it.
Published in the Nature magazine, the successful realization of that research has been achieved by Elizabeth Phelps of New York University. In an earlier study, she had successfully tested the method on a number of small mice.
It has been shown in the experiment that all one needs in order to wipe out an awfully frightening memory is by first recalling it. Thereafter, within a six hours’ time window, one writes over it a memory other than a scary one, exactly as it would happen if we were to tape over an existing recorded base. The important thing is to do it within six hours from the moment when the memory is recalled, as it is within such a time span that fear becomes entrenched again. 
Anxiety disorders and post-traumatic stress are linked to bad experiences which become rooted in the mind. Whenever a certain stimulus reminds one of the experience which he had gone through, fear resurfaces and anxiety grows, even though the stimulus is not dangerous per se. 
An example. If a man from Abruzzo in Italy, who had experienced the earthquake which shook that region, senses some minor readjustment shakes, it is highly probable, in spite of the fact that such negligible shakes pose no danger, that he is going to feel panic and hasten to take shelter in a tent, merely through his recollection of the tragic night of the past 6th of April.
Muscular tensions, too, are purely reminiscences of significant events which have become “embedded” in the body, in the light of the fact that a tension of the body might correspond to any mental tension.
The said study has been carried out by inducing a state of fear in some volunteers who chose to be tested. That state of fear was engineered by showing them some coloured squares and by associating with them a light electrical shock by their wrists, a shock which was merely annoying without being painful. 
The subsequent day, fear was recalled to any such patient’s mind by showing him the coloured squares once more. Thereafter, within the space of a few hours from the creation of the said stimulus, the researchers showed them the squares quite a number of times, but now without accompanying them by the electrical shock. At the end of this training, fear is removed. 
The disappearance of the symptom only takes place if the action which is engaged in so as to extirpate it takes place within a short period from the moment when the patient is presented again with the scary symptom; if such symptom is not reintroduced, or if the ‘fear-erasing’ training is conducted many hours later, the volunteering patients retain a trace of the fear. Put it in other words, they retain their fear of having to see the squares again. According to the researchers, this fact is explainable on the basis that when the fear is recreated, the memory associated with it crystallizes once more, precisely at that very moment where the memory is fragile and can be removed. 
It is important to observe the fact that the transcending of the ego which activates the fascination is an even more powerful tool, as it not only frees and eliminates a symptom, but, in several cases, makes room for a total rebalancing.  If we want to express it in simpler terms, we might define the therapy of the look as “the positive fascination which chases away the negative fascination derived from life experiences”.

- Is it difficult to learn magnetic gaze?
Once you learned this gaze, it will look  very easy do fascination with a client, how ever it takes lot of work to make ones eyes powerful, that includes the ability not to blink for extended period of time. In yoga its called "tratak". It isn't only a matter of gaze. You will learn  other exercises for other parts of the body as well, it takes a lot of discipline and focus to be able to achieve that level of hypnotic gaze, and that's why it seems like his eyes are about to pop out, the person in front of him feels very calm and relax and mostly does not remember much. 



-Why do you use the term “animal magnetism”?
The concept is near to that of “chi” but if we say animal magnetism it is more immediate . For example think about a cat's gaze or other animals? Have you ever heard they have a magnetic gaze? Can you imagine another way to describe the positive and powerful effect they play on you?

-In what sense does mesmerism wake up animal magnetism? 
See “How do  hands passes and gestures play?Is there a real force?”



-Which is the difference between fascination and mesmerism?
Mesmerism uses hand passes close to the body of a subject (magnetic touch) and fascination (hypnotic eye gaze) to establish a connection through magnetic energy that passes from the practitioner to the subject. Paret teaches that illness is the result of blockage of the energy of animal magnetism in a individual. In mesmerism the psychic gifts of telepathy and clairvoyance are bestowed as a result of working with the energy of animal magnetism. Fascination is a “open eyes instant hypnosis”. It uses eye gaze to establish a connection with the cerebellum and here they use the term serpentine brain. Eye gaze and symbolic hand gestures are used to get deeply into contact with and act upon the reality of the person.


-What do we treat with mesmerism?
Stress disorders, nicotine and drug dependency, gambling, addiction, pain management, depression, panic disorder, insomnia, motivation, chronic fatigue syndrome, and many other various behavioural challenges. Sometimes is even possible to work without knowing the problem 

-What do we treat with fascination?
Look at “What is instant fascination?”


-How do  hands passes and gestures play? Is there a real force?
Animal Magnetism uses hand passes close to the body of a subject (magnetic touch) and fascination (hypnotic eye gaze) to establish a connection through magnetic energy that passes from the practitioner to the subject. In mesmerism the psychic gifts of telepathy and clairvoyance are bestowed as a result of working with the energy of animal magnetism. Fascination uses eye gaze to establish a connection with the cerebellum and here they use the term serpentine brain. Eye gaze and symbolic hand gestures are used to get deeply into contact with and act upon the reality of the person.


-Does mesmerism play as  placebo effect?Is there a  real verifiable proof of its real operation?
As there is no book or video will teach you how to hypnotize, this is a practical field and unlike verbal hypnosis it requires attention to detail and correction in technique by some one who is in it for a spiritual and academic reason.

-Is there a fluid?Do we measure it?What verifiable and reproducible proof do you have that magnetic fluid exists?
Nobody has never seen it. It is good to think at it, but it is just an usefuml concept for your mind. If you put your mind in a belief "as if" you will get better results. It is your inner game that can give amazing results. The energy you use is similar to the concept of prana or chi. Also the exercises you do are similar.

What books can I read about mesmerism ?or What books should I read to get a foundation of mesmerism?
There are number of books on the topic .(You can send an email to Marco Paret  himself , he will go to help and support you )
There are e-books online. Find several links on the website .http://www.pnl-nlp.org/dn/ 
"Mesmerized" Powers of Mind in Victorian Britain by Alison Winter.
Ennemoser's book on the actual practice of animal Magnetism .
http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss?url=search-alias%3Daps&field-keywords=marco+paret&x=0&y=0#/ref=sr_pg_1?rh=i%3Aaps%2Ck%3Amarco+paret&keywords=marco+paret&ie=UTF8&qid=1306151849

Dr. Paret says that that disease is caused by a blockage of this energy. Does it mean that now disease is the result of a blockage of a metaphor or an idea?
Is this method a spiritual pursuit or does this method have an academic foundation?
Do Paret’s mesmerism model dated and replete with negative stereotypes?
Is animal magnetism the same as cataplexy or tonic immobility?
-What exactly do you learn in a mesmerism course?

-What is mesmerim really?
-Does Paret’s version of animal magnetism and fascination is a mix of NLP, quantum techniques ?
