HERMETIC SYMBOLISM

AND ITS RELATIONS TO ALCHEMY, FREEMASONRY and OCCULT MEDICINE

1910
OSWALD WIRTH
With additional comments from Marco Paret and Lee Gerrard-Barlow and a quantistic view about hermetism

TRANSLATION: JENNIFER STANLEY SMITH, 2013










Prefaction of Marco Paret
We decided to publish this work because we discovered with astonishment that a fundamental work as the Hermetic Symbolism had never been translated in English.
As many years have elapsed, and in present days the original sense of alchemy and hermetism seems to have been lost, we have thought that publishing this book and adding some notes could be a way to transmit the real tradition of alchemy and hermetism to which we were exposed.
None in this book has been changed, but instead we have completed it, to give to the reader the occasion of really understanding what can be the most important venture of his life.
Alchemy is a work of transformation, first of all of the person practicing it.
This is even more clear when we speak of hermetic philosophy, that is the basis of alchemy.
The metals that are transformed are the human beings. The different state of matter, liquid, solid etc.. are states of perception of ourselves.
In some way, following this path, endows the practitioner of a transformation that transform completely the reality around him.
This is from the mosgt ancient times the real secret of alchemy. “Begin the path from the interior” , “Ambula ab intra” says the “Pharmaco Catholico”..  The alchemical path begins in ourselves. Agrippa, paraphrasing Geber, said “No one can excel in the alchemical art without knowing the principles in himself; and the greater the knowledge of the self, the greater will be the magnetic power attained thereby and the greater the wonders to be realized". 1
“It is very important to precise that these conscioussness states are very precise as the Path itself is. There are not states of mental ataraxy, neither emotional states. They are connected to the mastery of thought, and relate to the objective perception, not parasited by the constructions of the ego. An awareness testimony and not caucht by toughts, vertical and not horizontal, present nad not traveling between past and future. In other words awareness of the HERE and NOW (hic et nunc)”2 
May this work guide the reader to the realization of such wonders and the acquiring of such magnetic power. And most of all, could this work be a guide to develop the gift of presence toward the full awakening of the human spirit. This is the final goal of the hermetic initiation, and there is nothing more important in the world to achieve.
A final note. “Hermetic Symbolism” was in reality a collection of scripts, that at the time of the first edition were connected more from a chronological point of view, each one independent.  We have changed the order in a way that we feel is more adapt to the modern reader.
In specific the two articles “an alchemical painting” and a “disconcerting  symbolism” are now in the appendix, even in chronologically were written before the article “Hermetism and Free Masonry”.
Prologue of Oswald Wirth
It was 1894 when we first had the idea of publishing a work about Alchemy and Freemasonry, as it is our opinion that the programme of initiation that can be seen in the series of operations of the hermetic Great Work and in the series of tests to which the Freemasons have to submit is one and the same. While we were pressing on with our studies, an opportunity presented itself for us to communicate the subsequent results. Thus articles published towards the end of 1909 began appearing, one by one, in the first edition of this book. 
A first print run of 500 copies was so well received that our work ran out quickly. Why did we delay so long in bringing out a new edition? We have been busy with other tasks. Le Livre de l’Apprenti (The Book of the Apprentice) needed to be finished along with the manuals of the Companion and Master; after that we worked on the Tarot of the Magicians which, once published in 1927, would have allowed us to get back to Hermetic Symbolism, but then we had to dedicate ourselves to Les Mysteres de l'Arte Royal (Mysteries of the Royal Art). Only in 1930, twenty years later, did it become possible for us to return to a piece of work which we had never stopped thinking about. 
We were no longer satisfied with the early part of the 1910 work, and we decided to delve into the material with increasing depth and precision, while holding back from rewriting the book in its entirety. The corrections are all in the details: they attempt to clarify the more difficult passages without modifying the original meaning. 
We also felt that a new chapter, Basic notions of Hermeticism, was necessary. This is a slightly amended reproduction of the second part of a work published in 1897, and which only retains the Philosophers’ Medicine and not the Laying on of Hands, where we related our experiences in the arena of therapeutic magnetism. Consequently, everything we have written about alchemy is brought together in the following pages.
Readers, you will not find a methodical approach here, but we believe we are doing you a favour by obliging you to put together all the facts that we give you. Do not become irritated by the inevitable repetitions or the statements that do not make sense at first sight. Symbols cannot be expressed with just one meaning and they can mean black and white at the same time, with no contradiction. Reality is complex and it is our own simplicity that simplifies it.  
Words, by their very simplification, are deceitful, while symbols reflect the infinitely unfathomable complexity of things. 
Allow us to reproduce here the page dedicated to us by the editor in chief of L’Acacia, our friend C. M. Limosin, in his posthumously published article written for the journal:
“…brother Wirth is, within the Masons, the head of a school which in other times, in France and other countries, was powerful: The School of Alchemy.
“The Masonic School of Alchemy is the French school, completely separate from the English school. In the 18th century French practitioners of masonry, influenced by factors that need not be discussed here, began to practice the occult sciences: magic, Kabbala, astrology, magnetism, and above all alchemy. Just reading one of Wirth’s articles is sufficient to recognise the alchemist in him. I do not mean to disparage him by saying this: on the contrary, I see him as the representative of a noble tradition. Alchemy is not, and never has been, that which the uneducated masses think it is. It was something like that, but also something more. It is generally believed that alchemy was just a series of chemical procedures by which to obtain the transmutation of metals and to achieve the creation of gold: that gold which would allow one to buy everything in the world. That is how it was in other times. However, we should mention in passing that in the course of the most recent research and experiments, alchemists have made some interesting discoveries which have in themselves been an aid to the modern science of chemistry. The nomenclature of chemistry is still full of terms whose origins lie in alchemy: nitrogen, vitriol, nitre, sulphur, mercury, salt, etc.
“But alchemy was not only this: it was also a general scientific system. This is why the alchemists’ notation symbols were used by astrologers and have been preserved by astrologers.
“Alchemy was something else, too, and it is this aspect that Wirth nurtures: it was a philosophical system. It is this identity, of philosophy and of science – or at least of what was considered to be science in those times – that is expressed by the words of Hermes Trismegistos: “The lofty is the same as the lowly: that which is down below is the same stuff as that which is high above”, which means that science is the mirror of reality, and that we should seek to find in reality the lessons taught by science. It was also something more: it was an art, the art of intellectual and moral culture among men. The “liquid gold” that alchemists strived so symbolically to produce represented human perfection. One inverse alchemical metaphor was expressed by Racine in the famous verse of Atalie:
“Comment en un plomb vil, l’or pur s’est-il changé?3 
“The transmutation of metals represented the transformation of ignorant, crude, barbaric and immoral anthropoids into learned, courteous, moral men. 
“This symbolic programme of is comparable to the programme of grades of a would-be Master Mason.
“This is the alchemy that brother Wirth nurtures. He does not practice blowing and he has no laboratory, not even a tiny athanor in his residence.”4
We would like to add that our knowledge of chemistry is rudimentary, which means that we are not able to appreciate the theories of the ancient alchemists from the point of view of modern science. The symbolism of alchemy is not linked exclusively to the truths of the initiation Order, but we prefer not to search for other things therein.  We remain convinced that that is the most solid ground. 
We do not see alchemy as an end in itself, but consider it a powerful means by which to arrive at insights into truth, which in turn lead to the realization of good. There is only one initiation, even though each school of initiation uses its own symbols. We learn by comparing, by transposing from one symbolism to another, and the light will be lit within our souls.

O.W.
Paris, August 1930.

Table of Contents
Sommario
Prefaction of Marco Paret	2
Prologue of Oswald Wirth	4
Table of Contents	7
THE IDEOGRAPHY OF ALCHEMY	10
THE SILENT TEACHING	11
The Philosophers’ Geometry 	13
The Circle	16
The Creative Light	18
Sun and Moon	20
The Cross	23
Salt	25
Nitre	27
Vitriol	29
The Substance of Life / The Elixir of Life /The Life-Giving Substance	32
Jupiter and Saturn	36
Mercury	38
The Triangle	44
Sulphur	46
The Square	50
The Set Square	50
The Swastika	52
Tartar	54
The Philosophers’ Stone / The Stone of the Wise	55
Rough Stone	55
Cubic Stone	55
Apprentice	56
Companion	56
The Hermetic Initiation	57
TABLES	62
Some Clarifications on Occult Medicine	63
Fundamental Notions of Hermetism	70
The Three Principles	71
The Four Elements	74
The Work of the Wise	77
The Septenary	81
The Doer	82
The Dreamer	83
The Peaceful Type	84
The Conqueror	84
The Egoist	85
The Altruist	85
The Strictly Normal Individual	86
Hermetism and Freemasonry	87
APPENDIX	103
A Disconcerting Symbolism	104
An Alchemical Painting	121
The alchemical process according to Basile Valentine	126
Hermetic view and quantistic view	131
An ancient Italian table with the alchemical elements and their meaning	138







THE IDEOGRAPHY OF ALCHEMY
THE SILENT TEACHING
Primitive writing was based on signs that evoke ideas, like our ciphers, which can be read in any language and will always preserve the same meaning. The original ideography of letters, in the Far East, was developed by means of the adaptation of a series of characters, each of which links to an element of thought. This makes it possible for well-educated Asians to understand one another in writing, despite the fact that when they speak different languages they cannot understand one another in words. 
There is no writing of this kind still in use in the present day, but it undeniably has many advantages from the philosophical perspective, as it obliges one to think without using words. Words allow one to speak volubly, but the spirit does not necessarily represent the same thing as that expressed by the sounds that are pronounced. It has been said that words were given to mankind so that he could conceal his thoughts. Let us instead hold onto the fact that men speak to avoid thinking: we talk a lot in order to say nothing. 
These disadvantages of the spoken and written word have not gone unheeded by the great thinkers, who have always refused to let themselves be distracted by the white noise of words. Convinced that the practice of meditation teaches mankind those things of the greatest interest to us, they founded the Schools of Silence. At these schools a disciple is not lectured; he receives no preaching or preconceived wisdom; he is simply put in the presence of his own self and of the pure displays of being. It is possible that the things, the symbols and the signs will not arouse any suggestion in him; a lazy spirit is not easily stimulated into thought. In that case, he is wasting his time at the School of Wisdom: he has no vocation, and it is better that he learn from pedagogues who will tell him what to think. 
But let us suppose that is not the case, and that, faced with all that he sees, ideas do occur to the aspiring disciple. This would be normal for an active spirit, which tends to think for itself. This brings us, then, to meditation, the practice of which should be nourished. On what should the aspirant meditate? For the moment, it should be the acts in which his masters make him participate. These masters will make him carry out significant, strange and disconcerting rites, precisely in order to encourage him to reflection.  But why – he will ask – am I made to play out a mysterious role under the pretext of being initiated? In what, exactly, am I being initiated? In formalities which – I know – are symbolic. I find myself faced with symbols whose meaning I have to discover. 
If such an initiation is carried out with a good man, but one who does not see the other side of things, the ceremony is a formality, and ineffective from the initiatic point of view. No one becomes initiated by virtue of a ceremony, nor by assimilating certain doctrines that the masses know nothing of. Each person initiates him or herself, by way of spiritual work to decipher the great enigma that we are faced with in our objectivity.
Speakers tell us of their own ideas, which are interesting to hear from the layman’s point of view, but which are better ignored if one is aiming to put oneself in a position to independently seek the truth. 
In order to discover it, we have to delve down into our own selves, right to the bottom of the symbolic pool where the pure divinity of the thinker chastely hides its nakedness. But withdrawal into oneself is no more than a transitory exercise; it is not an end. After delving inside oneself one has to come out, one has to rise above things in order to then come back to them, to really perceive what they are worth.
The everyday reality of appearances is a bundle of images that demands the new initiate use his insight. To him, everything is a puzzle. He is made to take part as an actor in the play staged by life itself. The actor is interested in the performance and wishes to understand the meaning of it.  To become initiated in the performance, to become an artist that understands the intentions of the play’s author, in order to play one’s role better; that is the supreme rule of wisdom for whomsoever takes part in the divine comedy of the world. 
But not all the rituals are initiative rites: the attention of the new initiate is often drawn to symbols, which are material objects held to be sacred, or holy images, as well as simple graphic signs, basic geometrical figures and evocative drawings that link to ideas of great significance for the wisdom of mankind.
In the following pages we will not discuss the initiation rites, having studied this topic in some depth already in Mysteries of the Royal Art. Nor will we deal with the objects of worship displayed by many hierophants, nor even with actual images, of which none are more revealing than the cards of the tarot. We limit ourselves in this book to examining the graphic forms which encourage the development of thinking, and we will centre particularly on the analysis of alchemical symbols, which hold the key to hermeticism, a philosophy far removed from words and of which true understanding is reserved for the true initiates.
The Philosophers’ Geometry 
None shall enter here who do not know geometry. This was the warning notice that divided the school of Plato from those who would simply listen, unable or unwilling to think for themselves. The geometry of the cordial philosopher was not, in fact, that of Euclides , the science of measurement and space, with its theorems and demonstrations. This was another geometry, of a more subtle spirituality, more of an art than a science; an art that consisted of linking ideas to shapes, and of interpreting symbols composed of lines in the same way as geometers read their figures.
It is by toiling to give meaning to the simplest of motifs that the spirit is able to raise itself to the fundamental ideas of human intelligence. The spirit elevates itself thus with total independence, without anything being dictated to it, it will find of its own accord the meaning of a relatively simple sketch or graphic. That said, the things that we are able to discover for ourselves, by virtue of the autonomous workings of our own perception, take on a guise of truth, at least in relation to ourselves. The value we assign to a symbol is true, for us, and if we are faithful to it, by assigning other values to other signs, we are constructing correctly, like good speculative masons.
The first matter of the great art, that is, the pure idea, undistorted by words, has to be extracted from its mine – that is, from our own selves, from that famous pool wherein the truth hides. 
Hermetists in the Middle Ages were reticent in speaking of the processes required to transform lead into gold. It was safer if the layman – and above all the Inquisitors - believed that the recipes of the adept had to be followed to the letter. That was how various ignorant men brought themselves to ruin in trying to carry out the Great Work, and how charlatans exploited the greed of the gullible. In any case, these foolish efforts actually constituted the beginnings of modern chemistry, which is something to be said in praise of Madness, the reckless servant of Wisdom. However, not all alchemists deceived themselves with their own symbols. To them lead signified banality, tedium, lack of intelligence, imperfection, and gold exactly the opposite. Initiates were not interested in perishable goods, in the ordinary metals that held such fascination for the layman. 
Everything links this to man, who is perfectible, and in whom lead can be transformed into gold. But in those times men were the property of the Church, which, at the pinnacle of its power, guarded its prerogatives and privileges jealously; hence the hermetists’ discretion.
They had their own secret alphabet, composed of signs that were named after different substances. But the words only existed for the laymen, while it was the symbolic meaning of the signs that informed the initiates about the deeper meaning of the terms they used. 
On the other hand, no imagery or ideography of initiation would be disclosed to initiates: they had to be led by their own intuition, personified by Isis. At most, certain images could smooth their path (such as the Rebis pentacle that was uncovered again by Mylius and Valentin in the 16th century).
Below we will see a circle with a cross, a triangle and a square inscribed within it. And these are the basic elements of hermetic ideography:


These shapes are linked to the Pythagorean notions of Unity, Duality, the Ternary and the Quaternary.
It should be noted that three of these figures are closed outlines, while the simple Cross does not represent a substance in Alchemy; though the sign for Vinegar (Solvent) is a Cross with the ends expanded. The simple Cross is never found in isolation, but always in combination with a closed figure: 



This is because the closed figures correspond to different orders of substances, which can alter their state or their destiny according to the indication of the Cross added to them. We will explain how this works later on.
Here we will simply show that the Cross with equal sized arms can easily be added to the Circle, in which the ideal conciliation of these two opposites can be written as ?. On the other hand, there is a clear relationship between the shapes of the Cross and the Square, the two sides of which form the Right Angle.
There is less affinity between the Cross and the Triangle. Only the horizontal base of this figure is found also in the Cross, which is the great conciliatory element, the religious sign par excellence, the sign that binds and links, because of the way it revitalises and spurs to action.
But we will not get ahead of ourselves in demonstrations before we have examined each of the factors in the hermetic tetrad, in turn: 


The Circle
The most fitting way to represent Unity  is to draw a single line whose ends meet and disappear. A simple line | is not so fortunate, because we recognise its shape as a line that has been cut off, an image of the Ternary, if its body and both ends are taken into account. It is true that this Ternary is found in any symbol, as even the Circle defines a limited circumference that separates the content within it from the surrounding infinity. 
Strictly speaking, the Universe is not representable: one can conceive of it but it cannot be seen anywhere. The best symbol to represent it is the practically imperceptible mathematical dot, which we should situated in an abstract shape, at the intersection of two lines or in the centre of a circle. It is from this practically non-existent point that the line starts, as it begins to move into space. Born out of nothing, the line, as it moves forward or curves around on itself, gives us a shape to comprehend which in turn can be raised, lowered, swung around on one of its sides to give us the idea of a three dimensional body. This generation is intellectual, and the human spirit of inquiry creates geometry from nothing in much the same way.
The impossibility of forming a realistic idea of Unity obliges us to return to the circle, the conventional emblem of something that has no beginning or end. Faced with the need to animate an overly simple geometric figure, Greek alchemists saw in the circle the image of a snake swallowing its own tail, the Uroboros. 
The motto EN TO IIAN, One is All, that accompanies the ophidian symbol, stands for faith in the global unity of everything that exists and everything that can be imagined. 
The Greeks’ speculations started from this unity, and always came back to it in order to appreciate the value of things in a relative sense. They made no secret of the fact that Everything equates to Nothing for the empiricist who only considers ‘real’ those things that he can objectively observe; hence the concept of the first matter of the Great Work, which fools do not see anywhere but which the wise see glimpses of in everything. It is this Everything-Nothing, or Nothing-Everything, which cannot be approached with words. 
Nevertheless, the empty Zero  – which, however, is not Nothing, because the Everything-Nothing leaves nothing outside of itself – cannot be discussed in a vacuum. Empty and Nothing are deceiving words: everything is full of “something”. It is true that what that something is may escape our senses, even if our intellect does perceive it. It has been portrayed as an extremely diluted substance, with no other qualities than that of its indefinite extent. The Babylonians did not have a name for this substance, though they did poeticize it in the form of Tiamath, the wife of Apsu, the bottomless abyss, the primordial dark god, who sleeps, wallows in himself, and refuses to create anything at all. This inactive god of the night can only be represented by a black disc , because he is the god of the shapeless shadows, which were believed to have existed before everything else that came afterwards. 
In order to please him and to join herself with him, Tiamath, his wife, dissipates herself. She becomes so expanded, so refined, that it is as if she was not there. In that state, she is the Primordial substance, impalpable and transparent, uniform and undefined: precisely what the alchemists’ Alum  represents. A philosophical salt par excellence, this is the origin of all other Salts, minerals and metals, according to the definition by Dom Antoine Joseph Pernéty, in his Dictionnaire mytho-hermétique.5
None of the properties of alum as it is commonly known would justify this pre-eminence. It would appear that some word-play also took place, because Alum evokes The One, the fundamental substance, and is analogous with Ether which represents the innermost essence of things, a subtle connection with no real differentiation. In other words it is the substrate, which in a sense is immaterial, of all material aspects.
In all cosmogony there is the primitive Chaos, in which everything with distinctive form and qualities is mixed up, smothered and stifled by homogeneity. It is Tiamath, before the furore that suddenly disturbs her clarity by way of condensation, and transforms the wife of Apsu into dense, salty water, from whence all creation will spring forth. 

Editor’s note. The ancient code reporting the words “en to pan”

The Creative Light
To create means to bring forth from nothing. But in order for beings and things to be brought forth from this supposed Nothing, it needs to have some sort of substance. When the human spirit evokes the image of a bottomless Abyss, calling it Apsú, or the abyss of infinite depth personified by Uranus, it always finds itself obliged to fill the vacuum that it has imagined with Tiamath or with Rea, deifications of the etheric substance that is spread out in this infinite space. 
This substance is still not something, that is, a concrete thing that can be distinguished from other things: it is the Essence of something, prior to any kind of distinctive refinement. If we imagine this substance as dead we are mistaken, because it is fundamentally alive and Tiamath has, with good reason, been lauded as the mother of all life. To fill the Universe requires unequivocal vibration, without pause, under the influence of the force of infinite dynamism. The vibrations are transmitted integrally in a homogeneous medium, such as that attributed to the primordial substance. Nothing stops the waves of the cosmic Ocean, which stays uniformly fluid without anything forming within it.
What, then, is the mystery of Creation? How was the sterility of  made fertile? Graphically, the answer is easy, and is given by marking a dot in the Circle: . 
This looks exactly like the diagram of an egg being fertilised; but alchemists knew nothing of embryology, and in their eyes it is the Sun that this sign represents.
 It evokes the image of circular waves emanating from a centre point, like the ripples from a stone thrown into water. This is how the sages of ancient times imagined the creative movement of the Cosmos. 
They imagined a radiation that starts from a centre point and spreads out interminably through space, spreading out in all directions like the light from a bright lamp. But the term Light was chosen by analogy, because the True Light is not that which strikes the retina. The Kabbalists give the name Aor Ensoph, infinite Light, to the agent that untangles the chaos before the celestial lights appear, those centres which give us our physical light. This initial radiation has to be represented as emanating from everywhere at the same time; not from a single centre point, but from an infinitely multiplied plethora of luminous hubs spilling light in every direction.
In pure reality, does not precede  because the light dates from the beginning, but words are bawdy substitutes for the thoughts that surge when one starts splitting hairs over cosmic issues. What is the beginning, when the something in question has no beginning or end?
The hermetists, who were prudent and taciturn philosophers, set themselves limits in their approach to solving the problem of the origin of things. Although they refer to the essence of Light existing before illuminated objects, they did not dwell on this subjective phantom. For them, only the Shining Light is worthy of attention. But let there be no confusion: Shining Light in this case means active agent. But how can we represent an action taking place, whatever it might be? We have above all to determine a centre from which the action begins (centre point of the circle), then the action itself as it takes place (ripple or radiation), and finally the result of the action (circumference of the circle). 
Seen in this way, the Sign  is related to the primordial Great Agent, that turns on itself to firstly give rise to shapes, and gradually concrete appearances. This agent is the creator of all things, but in the case of metals, its Great Work is realised in the form of Gold, which has the same sign as the Sun .


Sun and Moon
In contrast to the sun , which is masculine,  and are feminine: the active fertilising agent versus the calm pool to be fertilised6. Starting from here, one can establish, by analogy, an inexhaustible list of oppositions, like Day-Night, Light-Shadow, Full-Empty, Lingam-Yoni, Positive-Negative, Spirit-Material, etc. 
Alchemists love to compare the Sun and the Moon, and their inseparable duality; in their manner of seeing things, the Moon actually reveals the true spirituality of the Sun, when its light does not directly affect the senses or the head. The Moon has its mirror image  which brings us reflected solar light, turning the Moon into Isis, mother of all objectivity, and the Sun dark like Osiris, the father of spirituality.7

According to this way of thinking, the full Moon is  , whilst when it waxes and wanes it is . This is how it appears in alchemical ideography, representing silver in the order of metals. In this case the solar and lunar signs, antagonistically opposite to one another, represent the following ideas: 

Sun


Moon

Gold
Direct light
Reasoning
Discerning
Invention, discovery
Working, action
Giving
Ordering
Founding, creating
Generating
Fertilisation
Jakin

Silver
Reflected clarity
Imagination
Believing
Assimilating, understanding
Feeling
Receiving
Obeying
Conserving, maintaining
Conceiving
Gestation
Bohas


Other distinctions also arise from the Sun-Moon duality, but it is best, here,  not to stray too far from the specific field of hermeticism. We will pause here to consider Jakin and Bohas in order to avoid dwelling on the series of antagonisms linked to the two Columns of Constructive Discernment/Insight. If one goes down this route it is tempting to establish a corresponding relationship between the masculine Sun  and the active Agent, and between the feminine Moon  and the patient Object. Well, the two luminous bodies are both active, in the sense that they both give off light, but the Sun is the permanent focal point of constant radiation, always identical in itself, fixed and immobile like the brilliance of gold; whereas the Moon reflects whatever light is captured by its ever-changing disc, incessantly growing larger and then smaller: hence the inconstancy of the moon’s influences, represented by the changeable characteristics of Silver, which is a noble metal but can also become tarnished. 
It does not matter whether the points of the Crescent are on the left  or on the right, although the image of the Crescent Moon may allude to youth and the moon in its last phase of waning to old age. However the question of whether the points of the Crescent face upwards or downwards is significant. The points facing upwards , as in the symbol for Sal Alkali (Alkaline Salt), mean that it dominates the chaotic ether or will force it to enter into the current of regression.
The points turned downwards , on the other hand, represent Sal Gemme (Gem Salt) , which is an evolved, dynamically coordinated ether, with a crystallising influence, analogous to crystal that is already formed, which by very simple action, by its very presence, causes crystallisation to take place in a saline solution that has reached the requisite level of saturation. It should be noted that the famous Powder of Projection works in this way, while the Philosophers’ Stone, which is cubic in form, is reminiscent of Gem Salt, a crystalline mass of cubes. 
The first matter of the wise men and magicians, the stuff with which they work, is symbolised by the Great Serpent which, instead of forming a circle to eat its own tail (Uroboros), completely encircles the Moon and part of the Sun. This is the fluidic agent, with a single essence, but a dual polarity, such that it is a two-headed beast, and the two heads battle one another. One of the heads is the earthly Lion, constantly fixed in its condensing fervour; the other represents the volatile Eagle, which tends towards the dissolution of bodily form and the dispersion of its substance in the Ether. The condensing energy of involution (Lion) is in constant conflict with the expansive force (Eagle). The Moon and the Sun play the roles of induction loops, endlessly stimulating the eternal flow of life. 


The Cross
General symbolism of the cross
There is no symbol more natural than the archaic Tau of the Phoenicians,   or . The Semitic name for this letter of the alphabet means mark or seal, a graphic symbol par excellence. It took on the meaning T no more than three thousand years ago, and it only began to be identified with an instrument of torture with the expansion of Christianity. Currently, it is evocative of the idea of death, which is completely irrational and in flagrant contradiction to the rational principles of ideography. 
For the purposes of analysis it is best to distinguish the mathematical sign for multiplication  from the summation sign . 
Apart from these more conventional functions, which have nothing to do with hermetic symbolism, the Saint Andrew’s Cross  represents the meeting point of two factors that are similar, but moving in opposite directions, one inclining to the right and the other to the left. 
It brings to mind the image of two swords crossed; hence the sense of aggression often attributed to the oblique cross, which we will disregard, as alchemists did not use this sign.
Hermetic symbolism of the cross
The straight cross , on the other hand, is of great significant importance in the hermetic doctrine. The horizontal line  (the symbol for subtraction in arithmetic) is passive, like a man lying asleep, stretched out on the floor. The vertical line, on the contrary, is active, like a man standing up, alert and aware. The active  crossing the passivity of brings to mind the idea of fertilisation, and in fact the philosophical reference of the Cross is to sexual union, provided that the banal notion of cohabitation is expanded along noble lines.8 
An idea that penetrates a receptive mind is fertilising it. God is united with Nature in order to create everything in existence. Our energy is joined with our body in order to make it work. A force is only valuable insofar as its application; this is the explanation for the Cross, the sign of action and of work do and ne.
The different levels of being in the universe
Alchemists indicate whether this work is still to be done9, or has already been done, by drawing the Cross either on top of another graphical element  or below it . In addition to these signs there is also Mercury , which is more complex, as it can be broken down into  and  .
The analysis of this sign, with all its different elements, gives one a real sense of the reach and the subtlety of alchemical ideas. As if they had foreseen the most advanced of modern theories about the ultimate intangibility of ‘matter’, hermetists always saw the Universe as nothing more than energy in action.
The Great Agent of transmutation, the foundation of their Art, is a subtle fluid that fills the whole of Space and penetrates everything. The symbol  is revelatory for anyone who knows how to read the mute language of signs.
But let us proceed in an orderly fashion and analyse, one by one, the various ideas associated with the Circle, the Cross or their component elements. 

Salt
The derivatives of Alum , the non-differentiated primordial substance, are numerous. They all take the name of Salts; however, Salt itself, the most indispensable and most widely used salt par excellence, is Sea Salt . We must take good care not to confuse this with our everyday table salt. 
The Salt of the Philosophers comes from the cosmic Ocean, having been split from Alum . The horizontal diametrical line splits the circle and in doing so becomes the separating firmament between the heavenly Waters and the earthly Waters. So we are no longer dealing with that indeterminate, somewhat abstract Chaos, to which no qualities can be attributed. The horizontal bar crossing the Circle gives it the quality of a substance, which is still insensible, but comprehensible.  10
Words give only a very cumbersome translation of the ideas that these symbols give us to understand. To speak of an immaterial connection, that gives things the sub-stratum of their apparent stability, is to express ourselves with an infuriating clumsiness.
Salt is present in the base of everything that takes earthly form. It is part of the means by which everything is brought into being , thanks to the combined action of Sulphur and of Mercury , as we will explain later on. 
For now, suffice it to say that Salt is the stabilising foundation of all bodies. For this functional property Salt was established as a praiseworthy symbol of wisdom, coming as it does from the ocean of infinite wisdom. Men must learn to extract it from the salt marshes, where the sun evaporates the stagnant waters.  
Once crystallised, its substance is transformed into the body of the Stone of the Sages.11 Philosophers, in their piety, dedicated this to the Celestial Virgin, the Universal Mother who is eternally made fertile by the spirit. 
In truth, the upper part of the Salt symbol corresponds to the ideal of virginity that dominates all earthly realisations of the divine, and the image which is given to us in the form of the Empress (Arcanum III) of the Tarot. 
But the heavenly waters are the result of the evaporation of all that which was condensed by detraction from the chaotic primordial soup. Two opposing tendencies are thought to intervene in this primordial mass: concrete form-giving condensation, and expansive sublimation. Subject to this dual influence, the nascent cosmos becomes separate from the Nothing; but the basis of its construction rests on two distinctive constructive elements, traditionally represented by two columns that rise up tall like menhirs or obelisks.  The men who built the Temple of King Solomon bowed to this tradition, the entrance to the building being flanked by the two columns called Jakin and Bohas. For the hermetists, Chaos was interrupted by the separation of the subtle from the dense, which spawned the creation of Heaven and of Earth, the first act of the Biblical genesis. But the Creator’s plan for unity persists even when faced with the infinite variety of things. Therefore everything that exists has its own heaven and earth, which is what the symbol Salt  represents.

Nitre
The constructive stability of Salt, the foundation of all geological sediments and of the most stable rocks, is contrasted by a fundamentally unstable substance represented by Nitre , which has been known as Hell’s Salt ever since the invention of explosives. This is not the symbol of calm wisdom, but the graphic representation of every rebellion in history, starting with that of Lucifer12. The Infinite-Nothing  was necessarily peaceful, and the reasons why Parabram decided to set himself apart and disturb this primitive Nirvana are not well understood. However illogical it may seem, the poets came up with the idea of celestial rebellion as the solution to the problem of cosmogony. Ideographically, a simple vertical line provides a silent solution to the mystery: here that represents a descending and ascending action, an evolution and a regression. 
This brings us to the two symbolic columns of the Constructors, one corresponding to Salt and the other to Nitre . If in any doubt, we have only to go back and look at the Freemasons’ Level and Perpendicular or plumb. These instruments designate calm, absorption, the appeasement or resolution of any passions, the placid equilibrium that must be reached by the intellect, and then deepening, consolidation, penetration to the depths of all things, which is the same concept as elevation above the highest of earthly plains. On the one hand we have discipline, submission to everything that is handed down, docility, receptivity; on the other hand we have independence, criticism of convention, the search for the truth in oneself and the continuous sublimation of individual thought. These are the truly constructive oppositions of a philosophical mentality. 
Horizontal and vertical are brought together constructively in the Right Angle, the emblem of practical Wisdom applied to the realities of life. In Alchemy, as we have seen previously, it is the Cross which represents the inseparable unity of the active and passive, the fertiliser and the fertilised.  The Cross is formed in the centre of the Circle by superimposing Salt and Nitre , or the product of the two, according to preference.
Why is this new symbol given to represent Verdigris? What does Verdigris mean in this context? It is likely that this copper oxide was chosen because of its colour, green like plant life, or the manifestation of life; the symbol, from a physiological viewpoint, is the diagrammatic representation of a fertilised egg. In a more philosophical sense, the Hermetists saw it as symbolic of the energised cosmic Substance, just like the active substance in living organisms. When it is drawn within the Circle, and therefore limited by it, the Cross represents actual life, the life force which animates individual things and persons. The Cross in itself, with arms that can extend infinitely, represents indefinite, abstract life, without concrete application.
Vitriol
The rigorous balancing of the life force, with active and passive in equal proportions, is characteristic of the vegetable kingdom. In comparison, in the animal kingdom, the scales are tipped in favour of activity, while minerals are stabilised by the predominance of the passive life force. Graphically, these three life modalities can be represented in the following way:

 Animal - Imbalance, due to excess vitality
 Vegetable – Full equilibrium
Mineral – Stability, due to predominant passivity.

The signs  and  are not used to designate any of the substances in the alchemical laboratory; however and  are linked to green and blue vitriol, respectively. We will not dwell on copper sulphate and iron sulphate here, as the practicalities of chemistry lead away from purely speculative hermeticism. The signs are used solely in reference to occult knowledge. In the Vitriol sign we see animal Vitality in its dual form of feminine fluid and masculine fluid . Mesmer’s concept of animal magnetism was taken from Alchemy.  He knew of the formula linked to the word VITRIOLUM, which is an acronym of the famous phrase: Visita Interiora Terrae Rectificando Invenies Occultum Lapidem, Veram Medicinam.  Visit the bowels of the Earth refers to the practice of retreating to the very depths of ones self and to the deepening of human nature. Locked away in the secret laboratory of our own self, in our hermetically sealed Philosopher’s Stone, we must then rectify - distil the substance, separate the subtle from the dense. Thus will we find the hidden Stone which holds the True Medicine.
The secret of Vitriol transforms man into the object of the Great Work of the philosophers. Every one of us carries the Philosophers’ Stone  hidden inside them, the True Medicine, which has the power to cure all ills. 
There is nothing absurd in all of this, nothing naively miraculous, only the assertion that everything is contained within Man, provided that he can learn to know himself and to use the inexhaustible resources of his own nature wisely.

The spirit of the world
Mineral vitality is referenced in the ideogram of the World, which expresses the quality of minerals as the basis for unlimited life. This graphic does not so much portray the objective Universe, but rather the Spirit of the World, as hermeticism is not overly concerned with that which can be perceived by the senses. 
By mineral qualities we do not mean the synthesis of the self-evident qualities of minerals, which in lay understanding are considered to be inert. Hermetists ascribe to them a certain type of spirit, which is externalised in their bodies. Hermetists deduce many things in a speculative way and, with no knowledge of the applications of electricity or the latest theories on the composition of matter, it could be said that their spirits tend to orbit around the as yet undefined nebulae of categorically comprehensible concepts. Symbolism posed problems that they were only able to solve by using algebra, without discovering the actual values that their formulas implied. 
The cross on the globe
The earthly Globe topped with the Cross is , which considered from an initiate’s viewpoint is the emblem of imperial power, as it represents an empire imposed on the Spirit of the World, in other words, on the universal vital fluid that breathes life into astral bodies. 
The school of Paracelsus calls this agent by the name Astral Light, and it is represented as an invisible irradiation that generates a psychically phosphorescent cloud around our planet. Anyone who knows how to coagulate this fluid into a thickened mass, and then to dissolve this mass again, has achieved dominion over the Spirit of the World and possesses the supreme magical power.
 
One might ask what the signs and  mean, when not used in Alchemy. They should refer to materially active substances, like radium. There is an implicit destructive tendency: it is not the soul, but the body that is at stake here; it can perhaps be compared to “subjects” who generate metaphysical phenomena, which are then translated into abnormal mental-corporal breakdowns.
We have already come across the sign , which designates Blue Vitriol, or in other words, the passive polarization of animal vitality, in its feminine mode, in contrast to Green Vitirol , which is masculine-aggressive.
On the one side there is centripetal attraction, which gathers, retains, saves and condenses the life force energy, in order to use it calmly and economically. On the other, there is the masculine fervour, described by the arrow of Mars  , which furiously fires out the spiritual fluid in lavish bursts of flame.

	
The Substance of Life / The Elixir of Life /The Life-Giving Substance
It may have been more logical, before analysing the sign of the World , to discuss the simpler symbol of Antimony , but this graphic simplicity conceals the far more complicated nature of the idea symbolised here. The undifferentiated primordial substance is also thought of as the Base of infinite life . It is an ultra-subtle fluid, animated by unlimited dynamism, a never-ending heavenly Water that bathes, cleans and purifies the philosophical Gold, just as everyday antimony purifies earthly gold. In his Triumphal Chariot of Antimony, Basil Valentine says that, when prepared using spagyric methods, this substance is an antidote to all poisons. He calls it the Great Arcanum, the Stone of Fire, and ascribes so many virtues to it that no man is capable of describing all of them. The Philosophers’ Stone, on the other hand, has no particular outstanding qualities, either for curing the ailments of the human body or for metallic transmutation. 
In practice, it is whatever tends to lift us up and make us more spiritual, freeing us from the blind opacity of material things. It is the Heavenly Spirit, the source of wisdom and noble feelings. In the Tarot it appears as the Warrior on the Chariot (Arcanum VII) and as Strength (Arcanum XI), personified by a woman who, gently and softly, tames a raging lion. 
Comparing the symbols, contrasting some against others, is useful in order to better understand their messages and to gain greater insight into the scope of their meaning. It is also fitting to meditate on the following ideas:


  Heavenly Spirit, intellectual and sentimental
Spiritualising influence
Spirit that is separate from the dominant matter
Evolution. Redemption. 
Vegetative Spirit.
Physical life force. 
Spirit incarnate, joined to matter.
Health, vital equilibrium.
Instinctual Being.
Material attraction, sexuality. 
Spirit Fallen in the Material world.
Involution, genesis. 

We have no reason to return to Verdigris , but Venus or Copper does merit our sustained attention. The goddess with the gift of sensual pleasure tempts the soul into the body with the prospect of a languid existence, sensual and soft, exempt of heroic efforts. She teaches the love of life for its own sake, enjoying its delights, avoiding its hardships. This seductress would render life inert if it were not for the antagonist figure of someone who inspires love in her, Mars , the alchemists’ god of Iron. 
The lover of Venus represents mobility, the need to spend accumulated energy, whether it be muscular, intellectual or psychic. He becomes the active spirit in earthly bodies, in which the sensual spirit keeps life alive, gathering the reserves of energy and feeding them to the consuming spirit. Without Venus, the ardour of Mars would extinguish itself for lack of fuel; without the stimulus of Mars, Venus would vegetate in endless, inactive abundance. The two types of planetary and metallic disposition have the following characteristics:

Mars

Venus
Iron
Motility
Fury
Impatience
Vivacity
Active energy
Will
Dominion
Projection
Brutality
Ferocity
Destruction
Spiritual Fire or Fire of Life
Sulphuric ardour
Copper
Sensitivity
Sweetness
Patience
Calm
Apathy, heaviness
Docility
Seduction
Attraction
Grace
Tenderness
Conservation
Water of Life or Spiritual Fluid
Extreme Humidity

 
Origin and ancienty of the symbols
The Greek alchemists represented Copper, dedicated to Venus, with the symbol , which in general is the feminine symbol, and is found in a slightly different form in Asia . With the addition of a horizontal bar we have 13, which is where our symbol for Venus derives from, as well as the Egyptian cross . 
If we go to (NDE the ancient) Carthage we will find Tanith , whose form is reminiscent of that of the Catholic virgins. 
	The sign of Mars, in its original form, is a small circle with an oblique arrow passing through it . A slight simplification gives us .14
Let us mention in passing that our present-day symbols for Jupiter-Tin and Saturn-Lead  can also be found in Greek manuscripts in the shape of a sickle, for the latter, and for the former a Z, the initial of Zeus, with the addition of a thunderbolt/shining line .15
These two signs have become assimilated in the opposing combinations of the Cross  and the Crescent . 


Jupiter and Saturn
Ideographic relations and interrelations were not preconceived: evolution takes place in the field of symbolism just as in any other field. By including the symbols for Jupiter  and Saturn in the combinations of the Cross  and the Crescent  , we are entering into the patterns of constructive logic behind all hermetic symbolism. 

Jupiter
Cross below the Crescent:

Saturn
Dominant Cross, above the Crescent

Work towards spiritual transformation
Change brought about passively, via action in the placid life force
(The horizontal line of the Cross)
Growth
Development
Movement towards embodiment
Incarnation
Creation or generation of physical life
Animation
Youth, Presumptuousness
Life

Transformative work done
Change brought about actively via action in the active life force
(The vertical line of the Cross)
Disintegration
Detainment, declination
Decomposition
Disincarnation
Decrepitude
Transformation
Maturity, Experience
Death




Being a light metal, Jupiter’s tin correlates to the Air which is the breath of life, in contrast to the heaviness of Lead , which drags life down into the grave. But Jupiter’s lightness makes it frivolous, while Saturn is the most grave and serious of all the gods. 
The result was that the Saturnine Lead became the foundation for the hermetists’ art. This base metal carries the potential for Gold, locked away inside it. A Wise Man can set the wheels in motion for this transformation, as the metal is already mature and ripe for it, like an old man who is ready the for natural rejuvenation brought about by the alchemical process of dissolution of the body. This is a restorative process of which the Initiate, who knows himself as the Child of Putrefaction, has no fear. 

Mercury
No other alchemical sign is of such great importance as that of mercury . To a certain extent, the whole of the hermetic doctrine is synthesized in this element. 
When one begins to understand the truth about just what secrets were concealed behind this symbol that the Philosophers used so frequently, one is very close to discovering the secret of the Great Art. 
The mystery, which by common volition has remained unknown to the layman, becomes markedly clearer as soon as one begins to analyse the symbol for mercury  in a methodical way. 
Indeed, it can be recognised either as the symbol for Venus combined with , or the sign for Alkaline Salt with the Cross added to the underside. 
In the former case, Venus denotes a substance in which the vital energies that will eventually unfurl are locked away within, as in a seed. The addition of the Crescent  on top indicates that evolution must take place under the dominion of the Moon – in other words, on the material plane, subject to perpetual change. 
In this sense Mercury appears to us as the fundamental essence of life of material objects, the starting point from which all things are produced, develop and transformed. It is the universal agent of material nature, the messenger of the gods; in other words, the essential intermediary between the different planes of existence, or the eternal mediator.
If we now return to what we know about Alkaline Salt we can understand the way in which this sign is altered by the addition of the Cross , which indicates here that a fertilisation has taken place. The first matter of the sages, which is suitable to be used for almost any kind of metamorphosis, becomes animated by way of this life-generating development, and becomes capable of actually carrying all of its potentialities through to realisation.
The hermetic philosophers used numerous terms to refer to mercury , but primarily they gave it the name Azoe, which according to Planiscampus should be written , in order that it be kabbalistically composed of the first letter common to all alphabets, A, followed by the last letter in Latin Z, Greek  and Hebrew . Azoth represents, simultaneously, the beginning and the end of every earthly body.
When the symbol for Azoth is inverted, , it is linked to the image of Arcanum III, which represents the Empress, the Queen of the Heavens, or the Winged Virgin of the Apocalypse . If we analyse the symbol we will see Antimony atop a defeated Crescent  (sovereign purity that flees from all altering influences but which, nevertheless, exercises an irresistible purifying power over everything that is inferior to it). On the other hand, we could also represent it as Gem Salt crowned by the Cross , that is, spiritualised, sublimated or glorified, having acquired the highest of virtues. 
In fact, this symbol no longer represents the spirit of all things, or the embodiment of the universal life force , but rather the celestial spirit, whose aim is to strip us of all material worth, raising us up and spiritualising us. However, it is necessary to remember that we are speaking here of the universal plane, that is, the highest spheres of thought that dominate the world. We are in fact in Binah (Intelligence or Understanding), which corresponds to the third term of the first triad of the tree of sephiroths, or simply to kabbalistic numbers. The Woman, who by her ascension is become celestial, is identified with Venus-Urania, or the Babylonians’ Ishtar, in this state, as she creates all the idealistic shapes or the idea-types which give order to all of creation. She reigns in the sublime regions of pure intellect, high above the ever-changing sphere of the sub-lunar world, which nevertheless is destined to submit to her in the end. 16
The two forms of mercury
It should be noted that mercury , which is characterised as the universal mediator, serves as a link between the other metals or planets, without displaying any particular affinity; hence its neutral, or more precisely, androgynous character, evidenced by the central position that it occupies in the Septenary (See the following page).
This means that mercury plays a part in all qualities, that is, it is the base upon which all qualities are begotten, in all their opposing varieties. This is particularly true of that which the hermetists decided to call Azoth , the symbol formed by the Sign of Venus  (the Cross of the Egyptians ), crowned by the Half Moon of Isis .
That said, the Half Moon, which is reminiscent of the horns of the Sacred Cow or of the Bull of the Zodiac, is sometimes replaced by the sign of Aries , which is its opposite number. The Half Moon  in the shape of an open vessel or container is receptive and, therefore, passive or feminine: it carries allusions to fertility and to the transformations that this entails. The symbol for the spring Equinox , in contrast, evokes the idea of an arrowhead cleaving into the earth or, conversely, the shoot of a plant which expands as it emerges from the ground. Whichever way one chooses to look at it, it is a symbol of generative masculine power. 
quality. 
Normal mercury and double mercury

Mercury and the Occult medicine
All things considered, the Philosophers’ Mercury represents the stimulus of all life, par excellence, the universal fluid that flows in all things and whose bonds of secret sympathy join all beings together in unity. It is through this substance that magical operations, and more specifically the miracles of occult medicine, are carried to fruition.

Editor’s note. Some Images depicting mercury’s caducy

The caducy of mercury in an ancient roma mint.

Other images depicting the hermetic caducy
The Triangle
In the order of closed shapes  the triangle  is found between the Circle  and the square . It can therefore be deduced that it represents an intermediary entity between the almost abstract substance that can be called the spirit, , and the material sphere that is perceptible to our senses . In practical alchemy the Triangle is the symbol of the occult elements, which are: fire , water , air and earth . These are not simple elemental bodies, but rather modalities of the single substance  which determine the corporeal characteristics of all that is created from it.  The hermetic elements are easily intelligible abstractions, wholly removed from our physical perceptions. They must not be confused with the elemental things; those are simply the effects of which these elements are the cause. On the other hand, all matter is nothing more than the result of an equilibrium attained between the elements, which are arranged in opposing pairs, as shown by the following diagram:


It is important to understand here that Air , being light and subtle, has a lightening effect that counterbalances the effect of Earth , thick and heavy, which condenses and gives weight. Water , cold and wet, on the other hand, has a palliative effect on dry, hot Fire .
The symbol for Fire  is reminiscent of a flame, rising upwards and ending with a point. It thus alludes to an upward movement, growing or expanding, to a centrifugal action, invasive and conquering. On the other hand Fire  in itself has the impetuous tendencies of masculine energy; it provokes fury, and would be a destructive force if it were not mediated by the combination of the other Elements.
It is primarily Water  that works against the upward force of Fire , trickling downwards to fill every empty space or gap. Water acts as a squeezing, tightening force on that which is stretched and distended by Fire. Its action is therefore centripetal or constrictive. Instead of rising up vertically like Fire, it extends horizontally. Water thus tends towards repose and calm, which gives rise to a likening analysis between its passiveness and the feminine gentleness.


To judge by its symbol , Air is nothing more than Fire that has been halted in its ascent, suffocated, extinguished by the horizontal line that crosses the fiery triangle, decapitating it. Nothing is left but smoke, vapour or gas, a substance that diffuses and extends in all directions, in the same way as Water. 17
Earth  is a weighty, densified version of Water, that no longer flows in its cycle and has attained complete inertia in its solid form. 18
Though we will take the opportunity here to expand upon the theory of mutual, reciprocal antagonism between the Elements, we will limit ourselves to summarising the relationships between them with the help of the relevant image from the previous page.

Sulphur
Whichever realm they may belong to, every individual always originates from an internal centre of initiative and expansive action. In fact, all individual existence has its origins in this first rebellion, inspired by radical egoism that sets itself against everything else that will, nevertheless, play a part in its life. 
If we begin by looking at this general life force, we should remind ourselves that it transmits its vibrations, from all places simultaneously, to the still passive substance that will later awaken individual life. We represent this graphically as the following:


The central circle represents a saline substance  which is consequently either passive or neutral , and towards which rays of vitality in the form of heat and light converge out of the surrounding atmosphere, as shown by the arrows.

Now let us suppose that, after being refracted in the centre of this saline globule, the life force radiation turns on itself in a certain manner. This is how we have conceptualised the origin of what alchemists called Sulphur .
As the ideogram reveals, alchemists used this term to designate the Active Fire that is locked inside the centre of every being. This vital ardour, which manifests itself from the inside outwards via the phenomena of growth and development, is in reality the constructive principle of every organism. It is the labourer to which the Freemasons pay homage with their emblem of the luminous Delta.
In fact, they believe that the Internal Flame, on which the stability of each individual depends, is nothing more and nothing less than a particular form of the creative Light . 
A Mason may therefore consider that he himself is a direct emanation or incarnation of the Great Architect of the Universe. On the other hand it should not be forgotten that, on the scale of living beings, man does not occupy a privileged position. Every individual being, right down to the microcosmic level, in which a core of autonomous life is manifest, originates, just like him, from the single and identical essence of Light, whose tri-unity is represented by the alchemical Ternary: Sulphur , Salt  and Mercury . 
In effect, for the hermetist, everything is light. This is easily understood in terms of sulphur and mercury, as these two primary substances represent interior or microcosmic light , and its opposite, exterior or macrocosmic light, respectively .  Having said that, Salt originates from the interference of two opposing radiations that become neutralised in a relatively stable realm of the condensed, or corporeal light. Thus Salt becomes the receptacle of the substance that grows due to internal sulphuric expansion, resisting the external mercurial compression .
Mercury, Sulphur and Salt

We also explain here how the three primary materials of alchemy can each be interpreted in relation to the others. 


Sulphur


Salt


Mercury


Arca
Beginning
Spirit
Internal
Contained
Expansion
Centrifugal movement
Leaving


Hyle
Substance
Body
Medial
Container
Neutrality
Stability, repose
Staying


Azoth
Word
Soul fire
External
Surrounding
Compression
Centripetal movement
Entering


If the symbol for Sulphur ()is the symbol of a constructive Fire, locked away inside the seed that must germinate, then by inverting it we obtain the symbol of a Water that has undergone the whole series of purifying distillations, and whose distinctive qualities have therefore been sublimated to the extreme. From the point of view of the Adept, it is a wholly purified soul, fortified by the tests of existence, which has reached a state of saintliness that allows it to work miracles. It is conceivable, under these conditions, that the symbol with which we are concerned, in hermeticism, was associated with the Achievement of the Great Work . In the Tarot, this is represented by the figure of the Hanged Man (Arcanum XII) in the same way in which the figure of the Emperor (Arcanum IV) is linked with the Plutonic symbol of Sulphur .

The Square
Concrete matter, in other words, that which is perceptible to the senses, is given the symbol of the rectangle, whose  four sides correspond to the quaternary of the Elements.
When this figure takes the form of a perfect Square , it represents the Cubic Stone, or the perfectly balanced individual, in full possession of himself, whose organism is exactly attuned to all the demands of the spirit. The artist must realise this ideal in the most brilliant phase of his work, when the physical vigour in him is still combined with the delicacy that occurs with ones first impressions. In the initiatic program of the Masons, the Companion phase corresponds to the same period, being more propitious than any other to work and action. Thus the Companion has to transform himself allegorically into a faultless cube, with edges of exactly the same length, and the angles between the surfaces being perfectly equal and straight. 
These geometric requirements cannot but take on a higher moral meaning in the eyes of the symbolic Workers, who consider themselves to be the living materials of the Temple that they build. The requirements also indicate the level of meticulous attention required to work the material that goes into the Great Work.  
Nothing that is arbitrary or approximate may remain: everything must be regulated, coordinated in terms of numbers and proportions, in accordance with the laws of this Philosophical Geometry, which we discussed at the beginning of the chapter, and which is the fundamental Knowledge (Gnosis) of the Adept. 

The Set Square
As we have noted previously, we can consider the Cross  and the Square  as being formed of two right angles between sides of equal length, which have been joined by their vertices  or by their ends .
These indications are enough to give an idea of the constructive role played by the right angle in the combinations of geometric symbolism. Every construction, in effect, derives from linking two opposites, represented by the vertical line (energy, action, strength) and the horizontal line (extension, inertia, resistance). The mason is called to set in motion that which, by nature, is immobile. He gathers together everything that is dispersed, combines and then works his materials, with the aim of creating a stable and solid whole. Having said that, in order to address their purpose fully, these materials must satisfy the requirements of the Set Square, which determines the essential configuration such that the stones can fit into them precisely. Without this instrument, the Masons believed that no masonry would be possible. They turned it into the symbol of the Master who directs their labours, as his fundamental mission is to maintain a good harmony among all his collaborators. To this end, he must have the ability to reconcile antagonistic elements, according to the learning derived from the Set Square, the combination of the horizontal and vertical. Furthermore, he must make himself observe discipline, the basis for all association.  And here, the Set Square is an eloquent emblem, given that outside of it there can be no coordination. Rule, law, order, equity, justice, organisation - everything, in effect, is interrelated, with the constructive allegory of the need to correctly fit together the stones destined to join together in a seamless continuity, in order to create a perfect edifice.  

The Swastika
The symbolism of the Set Square throws an unexpected new light on the mystery of the oldest sacred symbol in Indo-European history. We refer to the hooked Cross , called Swastika in India and Fyrfos in ancient Scandinavia. It is made up of two set squares that appear to emanate from a common centre to form a wheel, the wheel of Creation or of Fortune, in fact, we are in the presence of an emblem that represents the Sacred Fire, creator of all things. Our prehistoric ancestors identified this fire, that breathes life into matter and creates it at the same time, with their supreme Divinity, which the Freemasons bestowed the name of the Great Architect of the Universe. The origin of all intelligence and all fertile activity, it governs the Chaos of the Beginning, guiding the quaternary of the Elements from potential through to action. The elements, which are direct emanations of the generative Cause, correspond to the right angles of the Swastika, whose vertical arm gives rise to both Air  and Earth , while Fire  and Water  can both be construed from the horizontal arm .



These last two occult Elements both act, one in an ascendant, expansive direction , and the other conversely, by shedding and constricting . Both act on the passivity (the horizontal line of the Cross), to determine the alternative movements of the life force. 
The other two elements (Air  and Water ) are, on the contrary, the passive results of an active intervention: one corresponds to volatility, lightness, that has reached the greatest heights, where  is maintained, the other is begotten by the deposit of heavy sediments that have become denser, and eventually solidified .


Tartar
The theory of the Elements as we have just presented it is completed by the approximations that can be established between the Cross , the Swastika  and the Square . 
This last symbol is also linked with the elongated Rectangle , which for the Freemasons represents the plan of the room in which they carry out their work. It is the symbol of limited space, within which perceptions can be experienced. It extends from west to east and north to south. The infinite universe is reflected in it, in miniature, reduced to the artificial dimensions of the World that we can comprehend. When the Initiate, leaving from the West, learns to walk in a rectangle, he receives a positive lesson in wholesome philosophy.  To advance towards the light, he must refrain from rushing in any way and remain, prudently, in the narrow field of those things that he can verify.
If the rectangle is wider than it is tall, this also indicates the predominance of passivity. This shape is found, moreover, in the symbol for Tartar , the magisterial matter that the Philosophers know how to extract from the Magistery. In Freemasonry, it is the Rough Stone, which the apprentices must cut cleanly and polish. It is offered in its natural state, which is crude and rough on the outside, but the artist can see the value of the compact frame inside, and he must work the shapeless block, removing all roughness, to then sand it and smooth it, and finally to transform it into a perfect Cubic Stone .

The Philosophers’ Stone / The Stone of the Wise
The perfect square  is the image of the individual who achieves perfection in their own species, because for them perfect harmony reigns between the spiritual and material world, even if the spiritual worker is in full possession of their physical instrument.
It is, however, a fundamentally ephemeral state of perfection, because we begin to decline in the very moment that we reach the peak of the active force. Strictly speaking, our life is divided into a first stage of growth or gradual incarnation of the spirit, immediately followed by the progressive disincarnation of the spiritual origin. In reality, we divide human life into three phases, but in actual fact the ‘adult’ age also comprises the end of the period of growth, which is becoming more and more delayed, and the beginnings of decrepitude, although this phase is still not clearly manifest. 
As the spirit becomes free from the bonds of the flesh it begins to develop its own powers. The ascetics know of a state of detachment that is favourable to all the energies of thought and will. The intellect may become stronger and stronger, in proportion to the weakness of the body. Have we not occasionally seen old people, and particularly the dying, demonstrate an extraordinary lucidity of mind and spirit? With suitable training, extraordinary faculties are frequently developed. The individuals who manage to obtain them work miracles. They may stun the multitude with facts and acts that by common agreement are called miracles. These are not always Wise Men, because the true Initiate does not seek out the masses, or their admiration, which means nothing to him: he works in the midst of silent seclusion to prepare the Philosophers’ stone.
This stone is given the symbol of the Square crowned by the Cross , a clearly indicative sign, given all that has already been said about the signs of Saturn , Antimony and the Achievement of the Great Work . The reader should see here the image of matter that has been sublimated, refined and surpassed to such an extent that there is nothing left but the strictly necessary structure required to uphold the manifestation of the spirit – which, starting from this bond that still holds the spirit to the physical plane, makes its final surge towards the kingdom of absolute emancipation.
We will summarize the primary relationships between the three aspects of the Stone as follows:

Rough Stone


Cubic Stone


Philosophers’ Stone
Apprentice
J
Youth
Learning
Acquiring
Arriving
Birth
Brahma


Companion
B
Virility
Practicing
Organising
Acting
Living
Vishnou


Master
M
Old age
Teaching
Restoring
Leaving
Death
Shiva











The Hermetic Initiation
Our aim here is not to provide the key to all possible interpretations in hermetic symbolism. A symbol can always be seen from infinite different viewpoints, and every thinker has the right to discover a new meaning in it, according to his own reasoning and ideas. 
Symbols are, in effect, designed to awaken the ideas that lie dormant in our minds. They stimulate thought by way of suggestion, and in this way they force us to uncover the truths that are buried in the depths of our souls. 
As a consequence, in order for symbols to speak to us, it is imperative that the seed of the ideas - which the symbols aim to make germinate and throw forth shoots - already exists within us. No shoots could possibly sprout if the spirit was empty, inert or sterile.
Symbols are not intended for just anyone. In particular, they tend to disorientate those supposed positive spirits, that have become accustomed to basing their reasoning on the rigid fixedness of dogmatic or scientific formulae. We do not dispute the practical utility of these formulae, which have allowed us to build, brick by brick, the whole towering edifice of modern science: to them we owe all the findings of scientific experimentalism and all the marvellous discoveries that are the glory of our age. But from a philosophical point of view, precise formulae still correspond to fixed thought, held back and immobilised by artificial limits, which seems like death in comparison with the live, undefined thought, complex and mobile, that is reflected in symbols. 
These symbols are not designed to translate what we call scientific truths. By their very nature they must be elastic, vague and ambiguous like the declarations of the Oracles, whose role consisted of revealing mysteries, leaving the spirit wholly free to its path. 
In this sense, a whole abyss separates the symbol from the dogma. The dogma lends itself to tyrannical indoctrination, it is the instrument of a rigid and absolute intellectual discipline, which is just how churches, schools and sects also understand it. The symbol, on the other hand, favours independence over despotic orthodoxies. Therefore it is not so strange that all the various initiations have used symbols, because they and only they permit one to reach a truly liberated manner of thinking. And it can be no other way, if one wants to delve into the mysteries of life – these truths surrounded by darkness, which are far too easily transformed into monstrous mistakes when one tries to express them in any other language but that of symbolic allegories. This is the justification for the silence imposed on the initiates. The arcane mysteries, effectively, can only be conceived of by a supreme effort of intelligence: they make the spirit of the truly Enlightened one glow brighter, internally, but they could not serve as the subject of a professor’s dissertations. Occult knowledge cannot be transferred by speech nor by the written word. It can only be conquered in meditation, and whomsoever searches for it outside himself is on the wrong path.  This is how we are meant to interpret Socrates’  .
*	*    *

These considerations will no doubt help to clarify things. By interpreting the basic symbols of Hermeticism in the manner we felt to be most reasonable, we were simply seeking to orientate our spirits, by demonstrating how a series of geometric shapes can be made to speak. However, far from making them tell us all that they are capable of revealing, we have only requested the most fundamental of indications from them, in order to gain an understanding of the graphical language that the disciples of Hermes used between themselves. 
Obviously other interpretations will have sprung to the minds of our readers, and as long as these are constructed logically, they are fully justified. Mr Limousin, former editor of the masonic journal L’Acacia, drew some very interesting observations about the sign of Mercury, seen in its two separate aspects and  . Our esteemed correspondent considers both signs to be androgynous. “When all is said and done,” he writes, “the Empress is a throwback to ctonolatría , to the time when it was believed that women conceived by immanence, by some inherent prolific virtue, intrinsic to her: the ability to give birth by parthenogenesis. Mercury is the symbol of intellectual creation. The upturned vessel catches the waters of the heavens, which fall into the generative or conceptive cavity to then manifest themselves as abstractions and entities (the cross, the symbol of creation as point of contact between the two planes). The Empress has the vessel pointing downwards to catch the mist that rises from the Earth: this then passes into the internal cavity and is resolved, by virtue of the cross, to take the form of ideas. The two symbols can be summarised by the words of the Emerald Tablet: ‘That which is above is the same is that which is below.’”

We should note here that alchemical symbols lend themselves well to the composition of pentacles; that is, shapes that evoke complex ideas. 
If we place on top of  and above   we get two characters, one of which is the inverse of the other:

The first of these calls to mind the divine Spirit, carried above the waters, exercising its influence on the soul from above; the second extolls the active fire, purified Sulphur dominating Gem Salt .
On the one hand, the first matter  is glorified by the achievement of the Great Work; on the other hand, the Celestial Virgin  inspires the sacred ardour of the supreme love. 
It is necessary to meditate on these two figures, the hieroglyphs representing the descent of the Divine Essence into the purified soul and the ascent of the infernal Fire, which is made divine by the fulfilment of its task of purification.



The Personality19
Self-consciousness produces the feeling of the "I".
Each one of us feels himself as owner of a domain which belongs exclusively to him. The I, as God reigns on what it thinks is its own But , is our I a being , an objective entity ? Contrary to current opinion, the "I" is nothing by itself , it is just a phenomenon of interference , a mental optical illusion .
It should therefore come to say "I know that I am nothing ," in the same way as Socrates said :
"I know that I know nothing ."
But if the individual I is an illusion as actual spiritual essence of effective objectivity, nevertheless exists in a way similar to a concentration chamber , where the intellectual rays entering our psychic sphere are refracted.
The I thus becomes the center of the being, and this I is made of our impressions of our memory of all images retained by our imagination or
combined by her, by our aspirations, by our desires, by the resolutions
we have taken , by our ancestral heritage, etc. . 
In addition , our being changes continously in consequence of the influences that it suffers and therefore, our I that in abstract should  remains fixed manifests itself differently depending on the circumstances . 
When we change our normal state , as in anger, if we are drunk or insanity , our I seems to have changed
Nothing forces us to believe that exist in us as a special divine spark, that can secure the persistence of our I  beyond the boundaries of the earth's existence . But man has always had the intuition that life is indestructible , that life transforms changing appearance and modes of expression, but it did not never extinguishes.
Certainly, nothing get lost , except in the intellectual and moral order or in the domain of the forces or matter .
But , as has been seen in the hypnotized people , multiple states of consciousness could coexist in the same individual . The ego may vary with the degree of suggestion that receives .
Under these conditions our personality seems an automaton. We are not only the need to play our part on the puppet theater of the world, but we are live puppets and life is ONE .
This unit of life can make us immortal , making us part of the immortality of the Great Whole , which is the only effective , because a mean immortality narrow, individual or personal , is repugnant to any sound reason .
The individual is an ephemeral and particularized manifestation of the species , which permit us to see him as part of a more extense life  linked to the great universal life. Lay aside the narrowness of our personality to lift up humanity. Becoming human beings in the meaning of the initiates, we identify with what endures . To live a life
superior and durable, know to disregard the pettiness of our Self , applying ourselves to think feel and wish humanely.

The point at the center of a circle, symbol of personality, whose domain is limited by the two columns B and J ? ? (The two tangents side of the circle). The alchemists signs correspond to the two columns: the right to B ? (Mercury crowned by the sign of  water ) and the Left to J ? (sulfur combined with Sal Gema)20.
TABLES

A table with the most important elements



From the left: 
the four elements (fire, air water and earth) and the words “from God”
the three principles (sulphur, salt and mercury) and the words “from Nature2
the two origins (sun and moon) and the words “from metals”
a fruit (the tincture) and the word “from the craft”

The tetraktys


Some Clarifications on Occult Medicine
Occult Medicine is based on the understanding of mankind, in those aspects of man that are invisible to and inexplicable by the official science of our times. This medicine employs means that seem irrational to those who are not initiated in the secret laws that govern nature. 
These laws were analysed, insofar as their practical application goes, by the intuitive sages of our most ancient history. Later on they gave inspiration to the traditional science, known by the name of Magic.
This is, indeed, a serious knowledge, profound, arduous, difficult to assimilate, even if only in theory: carrying it out in practice is even more formidable.  There are certain conditions of an intellectual, moral and physical kind that must be fulfilled by those who aspire to lifting the veil of the mysteries that prudent Nature hides from the eyes of common mortals. The Occult Sciences constitute a labyrinth in which the foolhardy one who embarks on the adventure without adequate preparation will be lost. He puts his sanity, his physiological equilibrium, and his health at risk, not to mention his destiny and the salvation of his soul. 
This does not mean that the Initiation may not be undertaken by valiant spirits who accept the risks therein. Those who have the vocation will reach enlightenment, but they will have to endure arduous tests. We do not have in mind here the ceremonies, which may be more or less strange and terrifying, of the initiatic associations, nor the exams to which the candidates of the profane schools are subjected. To make oneself initiable is desirable, both for the spirit and for truth; if one limits oneself to appearances and external forms, the result will be no more than a deceitful illusion. If so many lost persons have fallen into the traps of false magic it is because, satisfied with themselves, they have believed that they could escape rigorous tests. Impatient for knowledge, they have drawn towards themselves that which they considered to be true before they had become resistant to that which is false. It follows that they have erred and have built too quickly on ground that has not yet been properly cleared. As there is no worse error than a misunderstood truth, the arrogant and mistaken initiate does dishonour the Initiation. One may even fall into the corrupting perversion of the very best things, substantiating the maxim: corruption optimi pessima.
Fearful of any kind of profanation, true initiates have always imposed the discipline of silence upon themselves. They only spoke with the most prudent of reservations, and only in the presence of proven disciples. Nevertheless, the recognised truth should be placed within the reach of those who are able to appreciate it. Thus the most ancient myths, legends and poems contain mysterious teachings, which are found in the religious traditions of all peoples, in the emblems used by the different cults, and even in the fables and fairy stories of popular traditions. 
“Those who are similar, join together”: this has always been true. From the time when human societies were born, they have always harboured particular groups reserved for specialists. The ancient healers were skilled at divination and cured the sick, and they would associate between themselves, for mutual learning and to share their mysterious powers; this was the origin of all initiatic associations, that formed under certain conditions and practiced rituals with varying levels of secrecy.
Having sprung from the same primitive base, these diverse organisations had differing views with regard to the aim that they pursued. Some saw their objective to be developing, exercising and transmitting the magic powers latent in human nature. Others aimed at initiating in the secrets of the gods and the mysteries of the other realm: these were the creators of the ecclesiastic schools. Opposed to these mystics, who scorned physical work, were the workers, proud of the initiations of their profession, to whom the religions of work that glorified and sanctified work itself were linked; then came the philosophers who yearned to discover truths that were hidden from the masses. They were also organised among themselves according to their discipline and pursuits. And they called themselves adept at an art that was higher than all others, the art of thinking, which became the Great Art, to be applied to the Great Work. 
This Supreme labour, indeed, is none other than that which is eternally fulfilled in divine creation, subject to the laws of evolution and of constant progress. To become part of this work, the Sage exerts himself to realize in his own self the greatest perfection of which human nature is capable. He does not remain a Rough Stone, and instead carves himself into a rigorously cubic Stone, in other words, a Philosophers’ Stone.
The symbols that the ancient masons used, in fact, match those of the alchemists, at least insofar as their reference to the Stone, which according to Eliphas Levi, the great occultist of the previous century, represents “in the order of the divine, the true religion; in the order of humanity, the true universal science, square in its foundations, solid like the cube, absolute like mathematics; in the natural order, the physical truth, that which makes the sovereign and sacred nature accessible to man, turning him into a king and a priest of the Light that perfects the soul and vanquishes appearances, changes beasts into men, thorns into roses and lead into gold.”
Common spirits remember nothing but this last statement. Many thoughtless persons set themselves to chemical manipulations, without realising that the language of the hermetic philosophers should not be taken literally. However, the philosophers might say that “the philosophers’ metals are not the common metals”, that their Sulphur, their Mercury and their Salt have nothing in common with the substances that are commonly called by those names, just as their Fire, in the end, is not that of the kitchen stove, the blacksmith’s forge or the coal engine. 
All hermetic symbolism refers to that which is occult, especially to the forces which the Sages must set in action, with an objective far more worthy of their concern and their desire than the transmutation of ordinary metals, something which the avaricious people glorified. 
It is possible that malleable gold was really produced, because the dogma of the fixation of simple bodies did lose scientific authority. But the work of transmutations, in any case, existed alongside the disdain professed by all true philosophers for all material wealth. For the Initiate, Gold is just a symbol of perfection, the means of carrying out an action that is beneficial to human beings, breathing fresh light into them, nurturing their morality and saving them from the evils from which they suffer. Healing was the object of the Great Work, as its application was to the Universal Medicine.
The panacea to cure all intellectual, moral and physical ills resides in the Philosophers’ Stone, a remedy that we should not seek to find outside of man himself: because the Stone is shaped by human means, it is none other than human individuality. The apprentice mason is working upon himself as, armed with the Knife and the Net, he smoothes the surface of his rough Stone. When it has become a clean and rectangular cubic Stone, he has reached the state of Companion; later, his journey of initiation is crowned by Mastery, which demands of him the virtues attributed to the Philosophers’ Stone.
This stone, therefore, represents a state or manner of being for the true Sage. 
In this state miracles happen, because no good deed is impossible to someone who has been well trained in the mechanics of all possibilities. Indubitably, the theory is far easier to grasp, in all instances, than the actual practice of the Art. The fundamentals of the Science are not inapproachable, and the rules that must be followed can be formulated without difficulty. But the application of the former and the latter demands a rare talent, the only one that leads to the true Magistry of the Sages. 
Let us not forget that this art is one of curing all ills, those of the spirit and of the soul as well as those of the body, whether they are the ailments of isolated individuals or of groups, because social ills must be addressed by the universal Medicine, just like the ailments of individual beings. The Art is therefore that of priests and kings, considered to be the agents of supreme harmony, which every adept should realize within himself, in order to then be able to bring harmony to others. 
That which we commonly call Occult Medicine is the application of the Great Art of the Initiates. Therapy based on the influence that one nervous system exerts over another is nothing more than an isolated branch of the operational practice that was the custom of the most ancient of Initiates. Our present day magnetizers would find peers among every tribe of savages. The effects of imagination have been equally well exploited since the most ancient times, by suggestion-makers who barely took theory into account; they were very powerful, because they themselves were also under a high level of influence.
But the past is dominated by crude empiricism, discussion of which was overshadowed by faith, without emerging into the light of reasoned science. The Initiates themselves were under no illusions about the importance of their knowledge. Discernment taught them that their knowledge was negative, hence the confession of the true Sage, who recognises that he knows nothing.  Without knowing anything concretely, he does at least manage to guess, to divine and suspect previous truths, justified by long experience. Thus the Tradition was born, which has continued to be vague, but in which every seeker who is serious in their search for occult knowledge has found inspiration.
This true Tradition has never been formulaically presented in a doctrine; it is not written down in any book, and cannot be handed down by word of mouth: that which is objectively transferrable is nothing more than smoke, not light. 
Spiritual clarity cannot be spread like the flames of a bonfire. Our spirit is not a lamp that can be artificially lit: it is a fireplace that must vanquish the darkness of its own accord, so that, instead of burning underneath the ashes, it can leap into flame and burn freely.
Strictly speaking, the objective of the Initiation is the teaching of how to conquer the light. This overarching aim rises beyond the many initiations that differ in detail, beyond the applications of initiatic procedures and beyond all teachings of secondary importance.  Formalistic initiations belong to this order, although within their limited scope they do nevertheless have a useful influence. Their modesty places them above the occultist initiations, which often originate from petty ambitions: the desire to shine based on the knowledge of secrets unknown to the masses, the ambition to possess exceptional powers. The true Initiate aspires only to become enlightened so that he may act in the service of realizing great and good work. He is not interested in anything extraordinary, he merely wishes to remain silent, without ever making known his own worth, while he dedicates himself in secrecy to the task that has been assigned to him in the realisation of the Great Work.
Since the times of the most remote past, the conquest of the Light was taught using images. The most ancient poems of the Babylonians allude21  to this, as do certain enigmas from their mythology. The Hermetists of the Middle Ages codified this dispersed knowledge in a certain way when they described the operations of the Great Work. Returning to the agenda of the transmutation of common lead into initiatic gold, the Freemasons adopted their rituals in accordance with the purest of Traditions.
These rituals, created mysteriously by unknown persons, hold more wisdom than can be appreciated by all the adepts of an association which has more than four million adherents. Therefore, Freemasonry also shares the fortune of religions: it teaches, with the aid of symbols, things that may only be understood by a select few. It tends towards progress by means of the Regeneration, which is similar to the Redemption of which the Christians speak. The Redeemer of the Masons is represented by that Light which, according to the Gospel, illuminates every person that comes into this world. This internal Light, called Logos, or Thought-Reason, corresponds to the Philosophical Child of the disciples of Hermes. We must nurture the God, born weak in our clouded intellect, and help it to grow; hence the allegorical operations of the Magistry of the Sages and the tests prescribed by masonic tradition. 
Both parties relate to the Saviour of the Human Race which it is necessary to nurture in every one of us, because the Sages were convinced that the heavenly Father does not intervene in the earthly sphere except by means of his Son, who is incarnate in us. It is because we carry within ourselves the seed of the Divine Consciousness that we can become reasonable and good, generous, devoted to the wellbeing of others.
Spiritual gold, Philosophers’ Stone, Universal Panacea, all represent the idea of the same single remedy for all the ills of humanity.
In order to heal, is it perhaps enough to simply have faith in a medicine? This is the belief of those who preach the doctrines of faith. Initiates do not confine their work to suggestive therapeutics. They believe that the individual must learn to cure himself by way of purifications that will free him from all that which hinders his physical, moral and intellectual health. When he is healthy he will spread this health all around him, as if it were an infection. 
So, then, no noisy preaching against vice: what must be done is that each person destroy all that within their own self that is depraved. It is useless to persuade someone else of a certain point of view; it is sufficient to live an exemplary life, leaving everyone to their own opinions. Flee from dispute and work well, working for the greater good in all that you do. 
How can anyone doubt that these are the foundations of the True Medicine, which is wrought by those who possess the Stone of the Sages? Search for this Stone within yourselves and you will find it; call upon the Light from the sincerest depths of your soul, and you will obtain it; finally, knock upon the door of the sanctuary of pure Tradition and the door will be opened to you.
But rely only upon yourselves, upon your pure sentiments, and do not let yourselves be confused by fraudulent pontiffs. Ora et labora.



Practical hints on Occult Medicine based on laying of hands22
Oswald Wirth healed hundreds of people using magnetism. He explains his experiences in the booklet “laying of hands”. Here is what he writes at an international conference of Magnetism where he outlines also the similitudes between some specific states achieved in the path of the Great Work. 
“I don't want to get in the details of the theory of magnetizing, but I want to give just some advice. ... At the begin, it is good for the magnetizer to close his eyes and concentrate just on himself, making an effort to put away everything that is around him. In this way he get the "isolation" first phase of every serious magnetic practice.
After, we must fill our body with the desire to heal, and after let go in complete passivity. He who is able to do these two first phases, soon feels some strange things happening inside him.
The head feels soon as invaded from a strange sensation, as the hairs should raise. After a certain heat diffuses itself along the spine, to get until the extreme of the limbs, where it is possible to feel a certain wetness. After, there is as a movement of reflux, and the chest fills itself, giving to the breathing an abnormal rhytm.
Naturally, at this point it is natural to lift the head, and let go one of the two hands of the sick person.”
“In this first part, the magnetizer is passive. It is the negative pole of a force that he draws toward him. Occultists could say that he call forth the "astral light" from which become saturated, to get, in this case, in a state of exaltation, as he was drunk, similar, without any doubt, to the state that serached to attain Paracelsus as he realized his marvelous cures.”
We can see a similitude between this first part and the first part of some ancient initiations, the apprentice phase.
You must concentrate on yourself and being isolated from everything around you. In allegorical terms it means go away from the prophan world and enter in the temple.
But to get the light (astral light or fluidic force) it is necesssary to win the elements, it means to pacify and direct all the antagonist forces dwelling in our soul.”

After having reached this state:
“this is the moment to extend the free hand in the direction of the sick person, and pass it slowly in front of him, let it stop where it feels as magnetically attracted. If it is in a part of the body where he can feel this sensation, the magnetizer must hold his hand there, with no other will as to feel his own sensations, that he controls feeling what the sick one himself feels, in order to discover each of the point where to exert his action. On the basis of this magnetic auscultation and putting attention to the general symptoms of the illness, you can even get to a diagnosis that may be is not accepted by traditional medicine, but that is sufficient to transmit energy. As exercise and experience help, an expert magnetizer understand very well what to do to reestablish the balance and the aharmony in a sick organism. At thsi point, it is sufficuent to just rely on the forces accumulated. The magnetizer can let himself overexcite by the healing action, mostly at the end.”
Hermetically speaking, “this second part is characterized by a sort of neutrality of the magnetizer, that profits from the harmonic balance created between him and the sick person, to observe the spontaneous effects of the forces that he put in action. At this moment we have a real hyperestesia in the touch, that permit him to discover the intentions that Nature itself manifests.
In this way, when the magnetizer has an idea, he enters in the last phase, and becomes active. At this point he must stay with his intention on the result he want to get.
The maximum of force for a magnetizer is a strong will accompanied by calmness. Together with it a strong imagination that can create a fluidic form that can do all the marvels once attributes of the philosophers’ stone.”

Fundamental Notions of Hermetism
NDE The theory of the great work exposed
The Three Principles
In a thesis presented to the Paris Faculty of Medicine in 1864, Doctor C. de Vauréal made mention of the theories of Alchemists with regard to ferments.23 I have here the opening excerpt of his explanations: 
“Alchemists would have it that everything derives from a single first principle: Light. Clarity and heat are nothing more than side effects of this principle. It is this which forms Air and Water. As water is the par excellence compound that can join that which is volatile to that which is fixed, so they hold it as Such to be the essential foundation of all the substances which we call inorganic and organic. The work that they set for themselves is the work of creation itself, which was begun by the breath of God blowing across the waters and the Fiat Lux. But they do not pretend to make something out of nothing; they only propose to find once more the first or elemental matter, which for them is not Earth, but Sulphur. Having once obtained this Sulphur, they wish to combine it with that which is volatile, or Mercury, by means of a series of sublimations, with the final aim of creating a spiritual material, that is extremely active: and this material they call the Stone of the Philosophers.
“They proceed in the following manner: they make their subject of a substance to which they give no name and they treat it with an agent which they call fire, but which in reality is a liquid water in which they believe astral light to have been condensed. This agent, according to them, has a fermentative power and by means of continuous efforts, which they call the Labours of Hercules, they trust that they can determine the fermentation of the subject and its separation into Sulphur and Mercury. This is the first operation, that terminates in Putrefaction, which they call the blackness or the wings of the crow, for its colour. But they do not believe they will obtain their Sulphur and their Mercury straight away; the former is melded with a great quantity of dross and the second is hidden within the Salt that has formed of it: only by way of repeated dissolution, fermentation and sublimation is it possible to put an end to the work. 
“These operations, which we suppose to have been successfully completed, have obtained the white mercury or living water24 and the Sulphur that they call the Blood of the Earth or Blood of the Dragon; then a new labour presents itself which consists of joining Sulphur to Mercury, or uniting the red man to the white woman, and it is from this union that the Universal Medicine of the hermetic philosophers is created.”
As the primordial Light is the agent of creation, we can only conceive of it as emanating from all sides simultaneously. It emanates from a core which is not located in any particular place, but which every human being can find within his or her own self. There is unity in multiplicity, the omnipresence of the infinite source of all existence, all life and all thought.
In every individual, irrespective of which kingdom they come from, the universal Light is manifested like a hearth of expansive energy. It allows an internal fire to burn inside us, maintained by that which Alchemists call Sulphur F.
This Fire of life, which is inherent to every organic cell and also to every mineral atom, spreads its rays infinitely, such that a luminous radiation is given off by all individualised beings and diffused through space. This new aspect of the Light, which is singular in its essence, in Hermetism takes the name of Mercury because, in the same way that the metal infiltrates organic bodies through the pores and tends to penetrate to their very centre, this ambient Light is recognised to be centripetal and universally penetrating. 
But there is a distinction between the luminous rays that spread either from within or from without (Sulphur F) and those that start from within and then become concentrated on every emitting centre (Mercury ). But how can we speak of within and without, without conceiving of some intermediate content, a limit where the opposing rays balance against one another, and by way of this stabilisation, become condensed? From this concept, Salt  is born, the third aspect of the Light that fills the Universe, leaving no space for the negative shadows, that correspond to an inconceivable Nothing. 
Sulphur F, Mercury  and Salt  are the three principles that the Sages consider to be uniquely and absolutely necessary in everything that exists, because it is impossible to imagine anything that does not have its own substance, its limiting sphere (Salt ), that is subject simultaneously to internal influences (Sulphur F) and external influences (Mercury ).
Considered in its universal form as the etheric dynamism that is the animating force of all things, Mercury in its active form takes the name Azoth of the Sages. Its symbol then becomes slightly modified: the passive half moon that crowns the symbol gives way to the zodiacal sign of the ram . We are tempted to say that everything, in its origins, resides in that Azoth, the beginning and end of creation. It is the divine Breath (Ruach Elohim) that floats above the saline waters since the beginning of time and for all eternity. It is He who was made flesh inside the virginal substance so that the redeeming Light could be born. 
More precious than all the treasures in the world, this Light illuminates the conscience and guides the will. It is born of Mercury (Breath of Life) that penetrates to Sulphur (core of individual initiative) by passing through the purified envelope of Salt (Mental self).
The purifications of initiation attack the opaque layer covering the sulphurous centre; the repeated ablutions turn the saline layers white as they are gradually freed from the obscuring mud. Once this operation is completed, the veil falls from the eyes of the person being initiated, who in that moment sees the Light. 
It goes without saying that there is no ceremonial that has the power to actually bestow the True Light. Of that which is carried out in a ritual fashion, it is all image and symbol. We must purify ourselves in spirit and in truth if we want to conquer the royal Light which, when it penetrates us, illuminates us in an intiatic sense. 
“We can express these same concepts in this way: this work of transformation is performed by Fire (i.e., by the spirit) that acts on the Earth (i.e., matter) in order to actualize the perfect Magistery, or the attainment of the Stone of the Wise. Let us remember: "Aurum igitur aurificandi verum, unum, solum principium esto. "  (Gold is the one, true, and only principle of gold-making.) “
“The principle of perfectibility, dignification, and sublimation of the spirit is in the spirit itself and it creates (or determines, if you prefer) within itself the conditions of the ascent. Do not think that this is an easy operation, especially in its initial, double phase25. This phase teaches how to first isolate the spirit, making it unassailable from any external influence, until, having perfected this state, it eventually acquires a new self-consciousness with completely new ways of perceiving. 26
And what is this illumination but the marriage within us of Sulphur and Mercury, of the red man and the white woman that we have already spoken of? By “red man” we mean individual will and by “white woman” we mean the general volition, that of the Queen of Heaven, represented in the Tarot by the Empress. If we learn to direct our will in perfect harmony with the ruler of the Universe, we will achieve the alchemical ideal of purified Salt, the nuptial chamber of Sulphur and Mercury. 
In human nature, Sulphur corresponds to masculinity. Its preponderance encourages individual initiative, favouring unshakeable value, unrelenting ardour, prideful energy, the love of command. Sulphur is inventive; it creates, it founds, it establishes (Jakin Column). It leans towards movement, externalised action, conquest; it causes us to take and give, rather than passively receiving. Intellectually, this influence rejects docile faith, that is receptive to the ideas of others; it encourages independence of spirit, which formulates notions that are discerned by the very exercise of this independence. 
The femininity of Mercury, on the other hand, encourages softness, calm, withdrawal and meditation, rest, prudent caution, modesty, resignation and obedience. It becomes comprehensive, sensitive to all that which is subtle, capable of divination, trusting yet lucid, when the imagination has been refined, such that it does not distort the images reflected in its mirror.
With regard to Salt , it really symbolises Wisdom, whenever a fixed equilibrium, justly balanced weighting and stability have been secured. It is essential to obtain and maintain this clarity, as it is the foundation on which the Great Work rests. 


The Four Elements
Salt corresponds to the entirety of the sphere of our self, in which we can distinguish a fluid atmosphere enveloping a compact core. This is represented graphically in the ideogram for Salt   by the semicircle inside the circle, which alludes to the heterogeneous realm that is subjected to the action of the Elements.
These are not corporeal forms, passive subjects, but on the contrary they are agents whose activity maintains the volatile equilibrium of the elemental matter, a substrate of the elemental bodies that fall within our sphere of perception. 
Agrippa wrote: "There are four elements that constitute the grounds of all material things, Fire, Earth, Water, Air, of which all earthly things are compounded; not by fusion but by transmutation and reunion, and in which all things are resolved when they decay."27 These elements foreshadow in the physical and apparent reality the particular experiences of the operating spirit, whether it is conscious or not; "for none of them is found in the pure state, but they are more or less mixed, and apt to be changed one into the other." 28
And firstly we must learn to feel these elements in our own body. 
As a constant source of weight, conglomeration and relative fixedness, Earth is no less difficult for us to perceive than Air, the volatising agent, and Water, which causes bodies to contract, while Fire causes them to dilate.
The elements are distinguished by their elemental qualities, which are: dryness, wetness, cold and heat. 
Earth, which is cold and dry, has the ox of St Luke as its symbol, or the zodiacal Bull (Taurus) of springtime. It is black and belongs to Saturn. 
In the warm, wet Air, soars the Eagle of St John, which is also the bird of Jupiter. Jupiter can be seen amidst the autumn constellations in the firmament. Blue, the colour of the atmosphere, is attributed to this Element. 
Water, which is cold and wet, flows from the urn of Aquarius, the water-carrier and the sign of winter, which in Christianity is replaced by the Angel of St. Matthew. Green is the colour of Water, and also the colour of Venus.
Fire, which burns with the ardour of Mars, is hot and dry. It can be seen emerging from the red mane of the Lion of St Marc, which is the Zodiac sign for midsummer.
The four elements are reunited in the psyche of man and correspond to different parts of corporeal life: Earth corresponds to the physical body, Air represents the breath of life that maintains the body by way of the bodily fluids that transport it, which are represented by Water. And Fire represents the life force energy, the source of all heat and energy. 


Earth acts as a porous base, a recipient for Fire, which is fanned by Air, and fed by Water as if it were oil. These last two elements must be able to penetrate to the Fire at the core of the being in order to establish the circle of the life force. 
Stimulated by the outside Air, the internal Fire grows by feeding on part of the Water, which evaporates. The vapour then penetrates through the pores of the earthly crust and rises up into the atmosphere; but the cold makes it condense, clouds form and dissolve in the form of rain. This falls to the ground where it is absorbed and filters down to the centre again.
This is the mechanism of the incessant circulation that sustains all individual life, and which would endure forever if it were not for the fact that the earthly crust becomes harder and the reserves of liquid run out. 
There is no Elixir of Life that would permit our physiological existence to be prolonged indefinitely. The Sage knows that he must die, and does not fear death, but submits willingly to it. He dedicates himself, therefore, to guiding and directing his physical life, but without attributing to it more importance than it deserves. In order to save his vital fluid, he avoids spending it excessively or in a superfluous manner; that is, avoiding any excess. However, there is also an art of growing old yet postponing decrepitude, of staying young in spite of one’s years. 
The fountain of Youth resides in the ethereal part of Salt , in the heavenly part of our self.  If we keep ourselves young in soul and in spirit, if we bend ourselves to the service of good work, if we love, if we think about others and forget about ourselves, we will not become hard: our moral hygiene will ensure that we are preserved. 
The magnetists’ fluid
That which the magnetizer calls  “fluid” is the vital Water that is externalised in the form of vapour.  When an ill person’s aura is very dry, the healer can offer their water to re-establish normal conditions and the resulting new vitality will help the patient.29
On the other hand, it is possible to work directly on the Fire of another person, by transmitting a preternatural blaze. When this happens, it can cause extraordinary and sometimes immediate effects. 
Sensitivity to magnetism depends on the permeability of the corporeal crust. The “subjects” are permeable, hence their surprising reactions to treatment. Everyone can try to make themselves open to good influences, though this does not entail abandoning oneself in any way to the dominion of another person. It is this spirit that shapes the Adepts of Hermetism as well as those of Freemasonry. 

The Work of the Wise
The Philosophers’ Stone is composed of a Salt  that has been fully purified, which then works to coagulate the volatile Mercury, fixating it and then joining to a burning Sulphur  that has become highly active. 
The Work is therefore composed of three phases:
Purification of Salt
Coagulation of Mercury
Fixation of Sulphur
As Salt is contained in the Philosophical Matter, that is the element which must be obtained in the first instance. Salt is everywhere and costs nothing, despite being of incalculable worth. The important thing is knowing how to uncover it, because one cannot extract Mercury from just any substance, and it may be that the first rock we come across does not possess the necessary resistance that the Constructors demand of the stone to be used for the Work. There are certain initial vices that will disqualify the profane before any sort of test. 
Let us supposed that these preliminary difficulties have been overcome: the artist has found the material to use for his project. Firstly he cleans it, such that no foreign bodies will cling to its surface (cleaning of metals). When this has been done, the subject is closed inside the hermetically sealed Philosophical Egg (chamber of reflection). Thus removed from all mercurial stimulation, the Fire of life diminishes, languishes, and eventually goes out (Death of the Recipient). 
Upon dying, the subject is split in two: all that is ethereal within it separates, leaving behind a “shapeless and empty” residue, like the Earth before it was fertilised by the breath of the Creator (Genesis I, 2).
This is the philosophical Chaos, black like the Crow of Saturn, a bird that symbolises the shadows that covered the face of the abyss.

Deprived of life, plunged into putrefaction, the subject returns to the state of chaos within which all the elements are mixed up. Everything would be over, if it were not for the seed that is sown in the putrefied matter. The dissolution of the matter serves to free this Son of Putrefaction, who is born again with the freedom to develop and grow. Its latent heat soon begins to dry out the chaotic substance closest to it, which leads to the formation of a crust of life that assigns to each element its role. Alternately externalised and then re-absorbed, the Water washes this new Earth, which changes from black to grey, and then to white, passing through all the rainbow hues of the peacock’s tail. 

The symbol of this whiteness is the Swan, whose form Jupiter took on in order to be together with Leda. The father of the gods in this case represents the Spirit that fertilises the Matter which has been purified by repeated ablutions: he is the Breath of air that penetrates into the Earth to beget the Philosophical Child. 
This Child is the individual Fire, the internal agent that is nonetheless linked to an external source of action. When it is made divine, this Flame is stoked higher and burns with abundant fervour, manifested by the colour red for the alchemists. This realisation of the simple Work bestows upon the subject the first order Medicine. Pure philosophical Sulphur is obtained, which means that the Adept begins to resemble the Phoenix. 
This bird with its scarlet plumage is dedicated to the Sun, which is fixed, and represents the fixedness of all living beings in its continual death, which is also the source of its simultaneous rebirth. The Sage aspires to spiritual fixedness of a higher order, by aligning his individual resolve with the great will that governs all things. If he achieves this ideal, he has coagulated Mercury, mixing the celestial Fire with that of his own infernal fireplace of individual action. 
Having reached this stage, the adept has already tamed the dragon of base desires. He is in possession of true freedom, because within him, spirit dominates matter. By having reached the peak of humanity, he has overcome his animality. Purified by Earth, Air, Water and Fire, he has undergone Putrefaction, from which he freed himself by Sublimation, which leads to Ablution and Spiritualisation. At that point, the Freemasons show him the Shining Star, the hermetic symbol being the Rose with five petals which emerges from the mercurial stone under the influence of the universal Spirit, if we are to refer to the influential figure of Nicolás Flamel.

The Magistry of the Sun

When the saline crust of the individual is purified and becomes transparent, the Light all around can be seen from within; and the red man (Sulphur ) falls in love with the white woman (Mercury). But the marriage of the King and the Queen has not yet taken place. In order for it to happen Mercury must be attracted; sympathising with the sublimated Sulphur, it lets itself be captured and solidified. Just as the Sulphur-King is the controlling force in us, so this is our will, freed from all pettiness and declaring itself the true King of its individual kingdom. This is not Royalty in the ordinary sense: it is acquired spiritually by the true adept of the Royal Art, who works on himself until he is worthy of the Queen, the celestial Virgin invoked by the devotees of Our Lady.
Artists who are possessed by a pure ideal are not mystics who have lost their heads. They have had to sacrifice their selfish I, renouncing all personal desires. Becoming indifferent to all the ambitions of the earthly slave, they have freed themselves from the tyranny of selfish instincts. By conquering their radical Egoism, they escape the hereditary mark of original sin. If they possess the sufficient energy to voluntarily end their ordinary, inferior life, they are born into a higher life of freedom, which bestows upon them the characteristics of kings. As they are no longer slaves to anything, they tend to become lords of Everything. Their will now draws solely from the highest of intentions, from divine intentions. 
This is the marriage of the spirit incarnate, the earthly worker, with the divine princess. It takes effect in us when our own volition becomes sacred, when we as Sons of the Father take up the paternal cause, dedicating ourselves to the Great Work of creation. Because the true Great Work is that which has been going on since the beginning of time itself. It is the Redeeming Work which gives rise to evolution, to progress, to the coordination of chaos and the construction of a better human race. 
The immediate objective is the preparation of Philosophical Gold, the symbol of the perfection that each individual may realize. Every one of us can carry out the transmutation of bad into good within their own selves if, once their consciousness has been enlightened, they act accordance with what it tells them to do. What is it that is asked of us? That we learn to know ourselves in the midst of the confusion wrought by the personal disturbances pertaining to all individuals. That we seek tranquillity and seek to refocus ourselves. If a refuge is offered to us, that we take it. That we leave the hubbub behind and enter inside ourselves: that we then submit to the tests of initiation and work to fully purify ourselves.
Then we will recognise that we have a concrete task: events and circumstances dictate it to us. We must be able to discern it clearly and we must comply with it religiously. Thus we will be doing good work, and no matter how small our achievement may seem, it will still form an integral part of the Great Work. We must be good and truly exemplary in our tiny sphere, and then we will produce the Gold and everything around us will benefit from the virtues of our Philosophers’ stone. 
The stone is both human and divine at the same time. It is human in its substance, its purified Salt, but it is made divine by the mercurial Spirit that infiltrates it, enlivening the Sulphur of the self. The Triangle of Solomon is formed in the Stone: the celestial Water is joined with the infernal Fire that has been converted, redirected in the service of the pure Great Work. A Marriage cannot be made without love: the malevolent internal Sulphur must necessarily be loving, in order for the celestial Mercury to consent to the union. But selfish desire would be useless: this love must be complete, absolute, it must be ready to give all of itself, with no reservations.
The self, once illuminated by the Shining Star, glitters brightly and has the sign of the Pentagram, the emblem of ulterior power that can be unfurled according to the will of the adept.

But the most dazzling of Magicians is nothing more than a simple witch doctor next to the Saint who forgets his self entirely and acts only in accordance with the divine will. The work of the former is his work and, however admirable it may be, it is still individual. The second may give the impression of not creating anything at all when in reality he is dedicated to the realisation of the universal Great Work. The strongest Force of all forces comes from the sentiment that causes the individual to renounce his own self in order to take into himself the whole Energy, the fusion of all divine and lowly virtues.

The Rosacrucians believed that the Pelican, which feeds its offspring with its own blood, demonstrates that love without which the wisest of wise would be nothing more than a blasting horn or a clashing cymbal. It has always been acknowledged that the most perfect Sage will be the one who loves the most. 





The Septenary
Sulphur , Mercury  and Salt  correspond to that in the human being which it is easiest to call Spirit, Soul and Body. The Spirit-Sulphur, which is pure activity, does not act upon the passivity of the Body-Salt except by way of the intermediary Soul-Mercury, which is passive in its relation to the Spirit but active in relation to the Body. 
In order for there to be balance, and therefore health and normal functional capacity, the three principles must be harmonised within the individual. If we represent each principle with a circle, all three of which penetrate the other circles such that each passes through the centre of the other two, we obtain the diagram of the septenary structure of the human self. 

 The three overlapping circles give rise to a combination of Spirit and Soul that we can call the Chemical Spirit or the Spiritual Soul. The Spirit penetrating the Body develops the Corporeal Spirit, alongside which the Soul infiltrating the Body creates, like a sister entity, the Corporeal Soul. In the centre there is a space in which Spirit, Soul and Body fuse together to create the Ethereal or astral Body, the Linga Sharira, in Theosophy. This is the core of the self, upon which everything else has an effect. This fluid central nucleus, which fulfils the role of intermediary, is aligned with the god Mercury of ancient mythology, and among the metals it is linked to Quick-silver. The other metals-planets are distributed as follows:

  Pure Spirit – Incorruptible Gold, Sun, Apollo, Atma;
Ethereal Soul – Silver, Moon, Diana, Manas;
Emotional spirit or spiritual soul – Tin, the lightest of the metals, Jupiter united with Juno, Buda;
Corporeal spirit – Iron, Mars, Kama Rupa;
Corporeal soul – Copper, Venus, Prana or Jiva;
Body – Lead, Saturn, Rupa.

The spiritual Sun  represents the divine Light which makes our self lighter, but without weakening it; more specifically our emotional Spirit, upon which our Jupiterian awareness is focused. Indeed, the force that commands us comes from the Spirit and from the Soul, which shapes our emotions and forms ideals and images that help us to think and remember. The bodily Spirit is the source of the impassioned and sometimes violent impulses that stimulate movement.
The immaterial Soul  is the foundations of the edifice of life. Without its weight, no work could be done, the Spirit would lack a support point and the Soul would be lost in boundless infinity. 
The Septenary of the metals-planets is joined by the symbolism of the basic colours: red, blue and yellow, and the colours derived from them: violet, green, and orange. The colour red is attributed to the Spirit, Blue to the circle of the Soul and yellow to that of the Body. So therefore violet becomes the colour of the emotional Spirit, green the colour of the corporeal Soul and orange that of the corporeal Spirit. Synthetic white represents the mercurial ethereal Body, while black is reserved for the surrounding Chaos that has not been organised by way of light.
Convention teaches us to distinguish between seven planetary types, according to the dominant influence in each personality. It is possible to graphically determine seven analogous types by moving one of the three circles that represent the Spirit, the Soul and the Body. 
The Doer
In this way, by moving the Body circle upwards so that it overlaps the normal area of the other two, Mercury , Venus and Mars are  favoured at the expense of Jupiter , Saturn , the Sun and the Moon . 
Here we have  an extremely pronounced individualisation, because the astral Body is endowed with an abundant vitality that powers a restless, active impulsiveness .  These impetuous and changeable types are characterised by constant movement, working tirelessly to satisfy the demands of their passions, and displaying great practical intelligence.  The weakness of the emotional Spirit  is manifested in a less scrupulous conscience; while on the other hand, the reduction of the material nature means they will lack positivity and physical solidity: the organism will tire quickly. Martial energy  will be more prevalent than solar ideality   and there will be more crude sensuality  than pure emotion .


The Dreamer

Contrary to the lively, unsettled type we have the phlegmatic character, whose Body circle is dwindling away. As a result Mercury , Mars and Venus  do not have a lot of influence. The individual personality is erased, the instincts are reined in and the life force  is lethargic. In contrast, the vast organism goes about its functions peacefully, without the slightest excitement; it is dozing, but obedient to the conscience  , whose power is increased at the expense of the consolidated personality . This solid, relatively inert body is combined with a beautiful ideality and the virtuous, emotional soul of a dreamer.


The Peaceful Type

Now let us push the Soul circle in the direction of Mars , whose terrain will thus be considerably reduced in favour of Mercury , with Jupiter and Venus gaining ground at the expense of the Spirit and the body . At the centre is a strong personality , governed by a conscience illuminated by reasonand with a generous dose of vitality, fluidly altruistic but timid, fearful, not daring to act, lacking the initiative and energy of Mars . As it cannot find an outlet for expression, the sentimentality turns to compassionate piety, bursting with commiseration but bearing no practical fruit. The Spirit   loses clarity, while the bodily organism becomes overly sensitive and flinches away from the weariness brought on by action.


The Conqueror

The inverse operation, which causes Mars  to gain ground over Mercury , means that the Soul , the Spirit and the body gain in the areas where Jupiter and Venus lose. This time there is voracious activity, but it does not act blindly, because it is illuminated by reason that does not hinder the scruples of the conscience at all; it also benefits from a vigorous organism that is not excessively sensitive; on the other hand, the Soul surrenders itself to the most ambitious dreams. 


The Egoist

As the Spirit circle moves away from Venus it reinforces the central personality , as well as the territory of Jupiter and Mars; but Spirit , Soul and Body suffer from the corresponding reduction in their sphere of influence. So, our character feels self-important: he is intelligent, which helps to satisfy his Jupiterian ambition; but lacks sensitivity, although he uses the scant vitality of his organism well. On the other hand, his judgement is cloudy and his dreams are disturbed by ambitious aspirations. 


The Altruist

As the Spirit circle slides away it ensures that Venus  is dominant, gaining the upper hand over Mercury , while Jupiter and Mars give way to the Soul and the Body. Tenderness, goodwill and affection overwhelm the central I and it is forgotten; ambition turns to emotion, and the active impulses are moderated, to the benefit of the organism. Dreams are altruistic and the light of great idealism surrounds this personality, which shines with generosity. 


The Strictly Normal Individual
There are only six types, but all of them come together around the seventh type, which is the ideally balanced man, the Adamic Model of Man, in whom the Spirit , the Soul and the Body  or Sulphur , Mercury and Salt are perfectly combined.
Individual human beings can come close to this type, of which a generalizaiton would be injurious, because it is right that we should all be different and that we should specialise according to the task that falls to us. However, we should not stray too far from the human norm, as if we became excessively differentiated in that regard we should be inhuman. In order to strike the right chord we must avoid all the distortions of exaggeration, and try to correct our character, modelling it on those close to us whose wisdom, or happy equilibrium, is evident.
Let us not exaggerate the importance of the graphical character determinations that we have just sketched out. Other interpretations could be drawn from them, because nothing is absolute in this area.
Nevertheless, constructions of this type are advantageous in that they help the mind to discover certain analogies, and sometimes allow a healer to get to the root of certain morbid imbalances. In this era of psychoanalysis, these evocative figures are not to be trivialised.
But all the logical deductions that can be made from a conventional ideograph cannot compare in importance to the classic planetary types. We will not embark now on the task of examining this septenary, which relates more specifically to Astrological Symbolism, but will dedicate a separate piece especially to the topic, that will follow on from Hermetic Symbolism. 



Hermetism and Freemasonry
As a continuation of our study of the alchemical painting from the church of Saint Maurice of Reims, we would like to make a timely reference to a German book whose author, Wilhelm Höhler, attempts to demonstrate that freemasonry is closely related to alchemy, or more precisely, to hermetic philosophy. The work to which we refer was published by Weiss and Hameier, in Ludwigshafen in 1904, under the title Hermetische Philosophie und Freimaurerei. It is in fact nothing more than a selection of texts pertinently chosen from the writings of the most well-known alchemists, such as Basil Valentine, Michael Maier (Sendivogius), abbot Juan Tritemo, Raimundo Lulio, Roger Bacon, Arnaud de Villeneuve, Juan d’Espagnet, Robert Fludd, and others who were less well-known such as Benedictus Figulus, Egidius Gutmann, J. Stellatus, Alex von Suchten, Mylius, Janus Lacinius, Tanck, Leonhardt Thurneiser, etc. These citations have provided us with material for the following chapters: The Universe and Man – Astrology – Theosophy – Magic – Kabbala – Alchemy, this last being divided into subchapters: The meaning of the word Alchemy – The Aspirants – The tradition – Symbols – The matter – The works – Colours, fire, tools – Liquid gold – Christus lapis. 
Mr Höhler did not wish to focus on anything but the freemasons, and therefore left it up to his readers to establish approximations between the alchemical texts he has reproduced and the masonic teachings that should be familiar to him. This method could leave lazy minds perplexed, if they have never thought to search for the meaning of all the enigmas posed by freemasonry. On the other hand, his method does answer the requirements of thinkers, who, having no fear of the efforts of contemplation, prefer to be given the elements of a problem rather than a more or less dogmatically formulated solution. In the realm of symbolism there is no need to be overly precise, as the initiatic symbols correspond to concepts that by their nature are difficult to understand, and cannot be reduced to scholastic definitions. 
In the final analysis, such definitions lead to nothing but words, wholly spurious entities with which sophists like to play. The word is, essentially, the instrument of paradox. It is possible to defend any thesis by argument, which can demonstrate the pro just as triumphantly as the con. This is because, far from having referents in concrete realities that are concepts in and of themselves, dialectics instead call into question verbal images, the phantoms of our spirit, which allows itself to be dazzled by this fools gold, this false currency of thought.
It is not surprising, in these circumstances, that the intelligentsia of centuries past has been divided between two opposing philosophers. One side took the logic of Aristotle as its starting point and hoped to reach the truth by way of rigorous reasoning, based on premises they assumed to be indisputable. This was the oriental philosophy that was taught publicly in schools, hence the name Scholastic.
The antagonist to this was a philosophy that was more or less always occult, because it was shrouded in mystery and imparted its teachings under the guise of enigmas, allegories and symbols. Through Plato and Pythagoras it attempted to hark back to the Egyptian hierophants, and even to the founder of science himself, Hermes Trismegistos, or the ‘Three times Great’, after whom this science was given the name Hermeticism.
This second philosophy was characterised by its aim of abstraction from Words, in order to become absorbed in the contemplation of things in their own right, in their very essence. The disciple of Hermes was silent: he never argued and he did not seek to convert anyone. Locked inside himself, he entered a state of profound reflection and ended by infiltrating the secrets of Nature. 
He would then become a confidante of Isis and enter the communion of true initiates. Gnosis revealed to him the principles of the ancient sacred sciences which were consequently manifested under the forms of Astrology, Alchemy, Magic and Kabbala. 
These sciences, which nowadays are considered dead, all have a common objective: to discern the hidden laws that rule the universe. They are set apart from Physics, the official science of nature, by the fact that they are simultaneously mysterious and more transcendent; and in this sense all of them together, as a whole, constitute a sort of Hyper-Physics, more frequently called Hermetic Philosophy.
The other thing that distinguishes this philosophy is that it is not content with being purely speculative. In fact, it has always pursued a practical end, always taken material results into account; its supreme aim was that which became known as the fulfilment of the Great Work. 
Here it becomes necessary to draw a comparison with Freemasonry, which appears to be a modern transfiguration of the ancient Hermetism. Masonic symbolism is in fact a strange mixture of traditions taken from the ancient initiatic sciences. It takes into account the kabbalistic value of the sacred names and governs its rites in accordance with the principles of Magic; on the other hand, it uses the Sun, the Moon and the Stars, just like Astrology. But it is the philosophical Alchemy, as the Rosicrucians of the 17th century understood it, which presents the most surprising analogies with Masonry. In both of them there is an esoteric identity, the same initiatic realms are translated by allegories, on the one side to metallurgy, and on the other to the art of construction. From this perspective Freemasonry is nothing more than a transposition of Alchemy. 
A reader who knows where to look will find numerous instances of proof in the texts cited by Mr Höhler. We believe, however, that he proceeded with excessive caution, and in order to take the issue one stage further, we will address the question frankly in the following pages. 
To limit this study we will focus only on the rites and ritualism of the classical Masonry of Saint John, which has only three grades. This will allow us, from the alchemical point of view, to abstract from the symbols in their own right and to dedicate our attention exclusively to the successive operations that lead to the fulfilment of the Great Work.
As you cannot do anything with nothing, the starting point of the philosophical word is the discovery and choice of the subject. The material in question, according to the alchemists, is very common and we can find it anywhere: the only necessity is knowing how to recognise it, and that is where all the difficulty lies. We are constantly carrying out the Masonry experiment, as sometimes we embark on profane experiences that we should have rejected in advance, if only we had had the necessary insight. 
The candidate
It is impossible to make Mercury out of wood of any kind. The Work can only succeed once we have managed to find a suitable subject. This is why Masonry demands a candidate carry out several rounds of study before he is allowed to start on the tests.  
Initiation begins, in the first instance, with the cleaning of metals. Alchemy recommends that once a favourable material has been chosen, minutely examined and recognised, all surfaces must be cleaned, to remove any foreign bodies that may have accidently become stuck to the outside. In short: the material must be reduced to itself and nothing else.
And similarly the recipient must be stripped of all his artificialities: he too must be strictly reduced to himself and nothing more.
The cabinet of reflection
In this state of primitive innocence, of rediscovered philosophical candour, the subject is closed inside a small space, where no outside light can penetrate. This is the Chamber of Reflection, corresponding to the alchemist’s cupboard, the hermetically sealed Philosophers’ Egg. The layman finds there the shadowy tomb where he must, voluntarily, put his prior existence to death. By decomposing the external layers that impede the free expansion of the seed of individuality, this symbolic death is a prelude to the birth of the new self, who will be the Initiate – born out of putrefaction and represented by the alchemists with the colour black.
The Masonic ritual states that among the various objects inside the chamber of reflection there should be two containers, one holding Salt and the other Sulphur. Why? It would be impossible to answer without referring to the theory of the three alchemical bases: Sulphur, Mercury and Salt. 
Sulphur effectively corresponds to the expansive energy that originates in the centre of every being (Column J, red, individual drive). Its action is opposed to that of Mercury, which infiltrates everything by way of an influence of external origin (Column B, white, receptivity, sensibility). These two antagonistic forces are balanced in Salt, the base for crystallisation, that represents the stable part of the being in which condensation takes effect, in that area where the sulphurous emissions escape the external mercurial compression.


	
The summary nature of these indications in no way reduce the justification for the ritual practices regarding Salt and Sulphur. The exclusion of Mercury is a practical necessity, because the Recipient must be totally isolated. In order to know himself, according to the Socratic principle Gnoti seauton, it is necessary to abstract from everything external with the aim of becoming absorbed in himself and eventually coming face to face with the core of his individuality.
This operation corresponds to the Earth test, represented poetically by a descent into Hell, alluded to by the word VITRIOL, whose letters form the initials of a formula very dear to the alchemists: VISITA INTERIORA TERRAE RECTIFICANDO INVENIES OCCULTUM LAPIDEM. 
Visit the depths of the Earth (the infernal shadows, Scheol to the Jews, Aral to the Chaldeans) and, by rectifying (by means of integral and repeated purification) you will find the Hidden Stone.
This stone is a fundamentally Masonic symbol, and it is likely that the alchemists may have taken this emblem from the masonry Initiates.
In reality, a stone would normally be out of place in a symbolism created by metallurgists; on the contrary, it is natural that masons would clean it, carve it carefully and sand it smooth30. 
On the other hand, the masons have a much less mysterious relation with their Stone than the hermetists. Hence they are able to state unequivocally that their rough Stone is the Initiate himself, in his first phase. He is trained as an Apprentice, with the aim of gaining the necessary merits to become a Companion, by the sole virtue of his transformation into a cubic Stone. With its meticulously formed right angles, this Stone possesses, at least in potential form, all the virtues of the famous Philosophers’ Stone. But it requires one in full possession of the Art, a perfect Worker or Master, to carry out the transmutations.” 
Naturally, these transmutations are not applied to the creation of treasure in a purely conventional sense. Their achievements are far more precious than those which might be tempting to the greedy. 
Left to himself, deprived of all support, the subject locked inside the Philosophical Egg quickly falls prisoner to melancholy. He languishes: his strength deserts him, and decomposition begins.
Under this influence, that which is subtle becomes separated from that which is dense. This is the first phase of the Air test. After descending to the centre of the Earth, where the roots of all individuality lie, the spirit ascends: it rises up, freed from the caput mortuum that lies blackened in the bottom of the hermetic vessel. 
This residue is represented by the recipient’s clothing, which he has to cast off in order to emerge peacefully. 
Now he will be able to make his way in the midst of darkness, without being frightened by the many obstacles. He is drawn to heights: after fleeing from hell, he wants to reach the heavens and persists in climbing the steep path up the mountain of ideals, whose peak must surely dazzle him with its light. 
His ascent is interrupted by a terrible storm that flares up quickly. Thunder breaks out and a hurricane whirlwind envelops the reckless subject, who is dragged swiftly through the winds back to where he started from. 
This is an image of the circulation that takes place in the alchemist’s closed vessel, a recipient that corresponds to the masons’ Lodge, which is usually covered. The recipient, when subjected to the tests, reproduces in its own way the splitting of the alchemical subject, whose volatile emanations become separated as they rise up, until the cold of the heights causes them to condense again, giving rise to a sort of rain that washes the putrefied residue. The gradual ablution of the residue appears in Alchemy under the name of purification by water, which the Masonic initiate carries out after emerging from the funereal tomb in which he had to symbolically die. A certain amount of confusion cannot be avoided here, owing to the fact that the operations of the Great Work all take place in the same vase, while the different phases of Masonic initiation unfold in a series of appropriate places. This divergence is insignificant, from the esoteric perspective, but needs to be borne in mind when establishing relations between the symbols used by both parties. 
Alternately evaporated by fire, and then condensed by cold, Water passes incessantly over the earthly part of the subject, and the repeated washing makes it change imperceptibly from black to grey, and finally to white, though not before causing it to take on, at a certain point, the whole range of brilliant hues of the peacock’s tail. 
When it becomes white, the purified material is very precious. It is the symbol of the sage who can resist all impulses. But it is very important not to be content with only the negative virtues; the test of Fire has still to be endured. 
For the alchemist this involves the calcination of the subject, which is exposed to such an intense heat that everything in it burns – in spite of which, the destruction only reaches the part of it that must be destroyed. 
From the initiates’ perspective, this part is made up of the seeds of paltry passions, the traces of narrow-minded selfishness, the residual baseness or corruption. 
Finally seeing the Light
The Salt is completely purified: it is perfectly transparent, for now no foreign substance may mix with its crystals. 
Until the Recipient reaches the corresponding state, he will not reach the masonic light. 
It is therefore necessary for this cycle of purifications to be concluded in order that the symbolic blindfold may fall from his eyes, for clarity will not penetrate him until he becomes permeable by its radiance. All the tests of the first grade take into account the permeability of the earthly or saline encasements that isolate the internal fire at the core of us, the source of sulphurous or individual burning. To liberate this internal light, to fan its flames and burn the crust that hides it and tends to suffocate it – such is the programme of the Simple Work or the Medicine of the First Order, that is, the grade of Apprentice.  This grade is limited to helping us to see the external or universal Light. It simply puts us in contact with this source of illumination by which we should, as Companions, be inspired to Gnosis with all its initiatic prerogatives. By bringing this Light that surrounds us, which Paracelsus called sidereal or astral, towards us and basking in its glory, we will obtain the red colour of the Work, which is a symbol of the perfect Stone, which we call cubic.
Outline of the path to the Philosophers’ stone 
The Philosophers’ stone is perfectly purified salt ,   which solidifies (coagulates)  Mercury  in order to then fix it in a highly active Sulphur .
This consolidated formula serves to summarise the Great Work as three operations: the purification of Salt , the solidification (coagulation) of Mercury  and the fixation of Sulphur .
We have indicated the phases of the first of the operations here, which is linked to the grade of Apprentice in masonry. It still remains for us to show how the Work prepares one for the grade of Companion, and how it ends with Mastery. This last grade seems to us to be the coronation of the initiatic hierarchy, which appears to negate all value of the grades that are held to be superior – which have often been represented as useless and pernicious additions. 
In passing, we should set things straight on this topic. 
The whole of masonic esotericism is concentrated in the three grades that are named for Saint John, if we understand them correctly in all their great scope.  Unfortunately these grades are excessively profound, and therefore not within the reach of the average intellect. It was thus with an eye to mediocre souls that the grades multiplied over the course of the 18th century. Extracting all the esoteric content condensed in the first three grades, there was an effort to make the principles of the doctrine understood, by using new forms and a variety of allegories, and forgetting the images that actually refer to the art of construction. Thus the higher grades were alleged to be knightly, Templar, alchemical, kabbalistic, etc. – in short, less and less masonic.
If there were no need to consider masonry any further than from the abstract or theoretical point of view, these severe critics who protested against the “intoxication of the highest peaks” would be in the right. But one must take into account contingencies, and give the benefit of the doubt where the chance to aid human weakness is at stake. Most of the adepts of the Royal Art are content to receive their symbolic grades, but as they cannot take true ownership of them, they never really possess them. They are in possession of a treasure, but they do not know its value and fail to maximise it. In fact, the higher grades have no other mission than to impart the esoteric knowledge of the three fundamental grades of freemasonry.
They do not pretend to reveal new secrets that are foreign to symbolic masonry: instead their whole ambition is limited to understanding it properly, making it valuable to the spirits of their adept, convincing them of the importance of the Apprenticeship, so that they become true Companions, who can aspire to the true Mastery. This last grade is, necessarily, an ideal proposed to us that we should reach for, even if it is not within our power to realize it. Our Temple will probably never be completed, and no one can hope to fully revive the true and eternal Hiram in himself.
Let us now return to the operations of the Great Work.
The Companionship
We have seen that the mason carries out the total purification of Salt during the course of his Apprenticeship. Once this purification is completed, the Companionship begins. The colour red is manifest, and the chamber of the Companions is traditionally painted this colour. The 2nd grade adept must effectively exteriorize his sulphuric ardour F, his inner Fire, constructive and executive, to which the active, red and masculine column J alludes. 
Logically, the Apprentice is given his salary next to this column, at which he arrives upon completion of his apprenticeship. In order to be victorious in his tests, he has had to develop a state of constant activity which aims to repel the external influences that used to dominate him. The test of Fire involves fanning the flames of Sulphur F, whose ardour burns inside the Recipient until eventually creating a fiery atmosphere within him. In these circumstances, red is without doubt the best colour for the Apprentice himself, and even more so for the J. column, which he must approach in order to be received as a Companion. The Lodge of the first grade, however, should be furnished all in blue, as it represents the Universe in all its boundless immensity. 
The Chamber of the Companion, with its red ceiling, represents a far more restricted kingdom: our individual sphere of activity measured by the magnitude of our sulphurous radiation.
This radiation engenders a sort of refractive medium, that reflects the diffuse ambient light and concentrates it on the subject’s spiritual core. This is the mechanism of enlightenment, which benefits those who have seen the brilliance of the Shining Star.
The Initiation of the individual becomes the vestal virgin to this internal Fire, the Origin of all individuality. He knows how to keep it alive as it lies under the ashes, later he learns how to feed it properly, and finally he stokes it up so that it vanquishes the obstacles that surround it and that try to reduce it to isolation. Indeed, it is important for the Son to be in communication with the Father, that the Interior communicates with the Exterior; in other words, that the individual enters into communion with the Collective from which he originates. 
Released with only our personal resources, we can only work on our own selves. This is also just what is asked of us as Apprentices. But once our rough Stone is scraped smooth, carved and cleaned up as the rules state, we no longer have to worry about our own self, which from the point of view of the purification of Salt, is how it should already be. 
But as soon as the instrument of action is perfected, we must act on that which is external to us, thus beginning the actual work, to which we dedicate ourselves as Workers or Companions. 
But whatever we might do in this stage would be insignificant: we must possess the secret ability to call upon forces outside ourselves. Whence might we absorb these mysterious forces? Could it not be at Column B., whose name means: ‘The force is in him’? Rising up to the north, facing the moon whose sweet and feminine whiteness is reflected in it, this column corresponds to the alchemists’ Mercury, the foundation of that life-giving essence that penetrates souls,  continuously fanning the ardour F at their cores.
When this ardour is violently expelled, as is required by the glowing heat of the matter (Fire test), a relative vacuum arises in the core of the being that works like a magnet to attract the “Steel of the Sages”. 
This substance, whose ideogram combines Steel with Alum, or Fire with Antimony, corresponds to the flaming mantle that envelops the Initiate when he is purified by Fire. It is the ethereal atmosphere or the fiery cloud that serves as a receptacle for the higher virtues. The adept have seen within it “the key to the whole philosophical work, the miracle of the world, sealed by the crest of God himself”. And they add that it is the mine of philosophical gold, a primordially pure spirit, a secret and volatile infernal fire that can be likened to the quintessence of all the stuff of the Universe. 
This exteriorized or celestial Fire is one of the two practical or effectively active aspects of the Great Work: the other is the internal Fire, which is stoked and fanned until it becomes able to attract the first Fire, like a magnet. A sort of circulation is then established, by which these two agents are reduced to just one, the philosophical Fire, to which the Emerald Tablet makes reference, when we read from it: “It (the par excellence hermetic agent) rises from the Earth to the Heavens and then falls from Heaven to Earth, and it receives all the power of things from above and from below. And thus you will have the glory of the entire universe; and thus all darkness will flow out of you. In this agent resides the raw strength of all the force that will have to overcome all subtle things and penetrate all solid things.”
The philosophical Fire is maintained by the red Sulphur of the Sages, its image being the Phoenix that is continuously resurrected from its own ashes. If this fabulous bird, with its scarlet plumage, was consecrated to the Sun, it is because it represents the principle of individual fixedness. Furthermore, from the Initiatic viewpoint it symbolises, more specifically, the immutability acquired by the adept, whose individual initiative works in perfect harmony with the propulsion that every worker receives from the regulatory power of universal construction – in other words, the great Architect of the Universe.  
For the Companion whose ambition is to know how to work, his mission is to transform into the Phoenix. If he does not manage it, he will never be anything more than a mediocre worker, and for precisely that reason it would be said of him that: “he is no Phoenix”.



We note also as what has been said now could be called “working on the metals”:
The need for an assiduous and tenacious perseverance has been symbolized by the alchemists with the expression "Iron of the Wise." This resolve is necessary in the operation before the composition of Mercury, which will later be made to act upon the (seven) metals that symbolize the earthly affections. These affections, being gradually sublimated to the ultimate perfection of cosmic powers (heavens and planets), from the state of initial impurity proper to them (when they are mixed in the earth with substances foreign to them), can eventually join the essence of the sovereign artifex, and even be identified with it in the perfection of the Work.31
On the other hand, to work does not mean to agitate oneself excessively, relentlessly expending ones forces, like the Cyclops whose lack of discernment is symbolised by the single eye that the legend attributes to them. The Initiate works with his intelligence, illuminated by that understanding that allows him to assimilate himself with Gnosis. In this sense he does not have to be always active (like the Cyclops) because in order to gain understanding it is necessary for one to become passive or receptive from an intellectual perspective. The indispensable condition for every fertile action is the right combination of activity and passivity. 
It is for this reason that the Companion must take profound ownership of the theory of the two columns, while the Apprentice only has to know the one relevant to him, whose name he spells out laboriously. 
The double mercury
The Initiate, who in a certain sense becomes androgynous because virile energy and feminine sensibility are united within him, is represented alchemically by the Rebis (from the Latin res bina, double matter). 
This substance, both masculine and feminine, is Mercury , enlivened by Sulphur   and thereby transformed into Azoth , that is, into that Quintessence of all the elements, symbolised by the Shining Star. 
We must observe that this astral body is always placed in such a way that it receives the dual radiation from the masculine Sun and the feminine Moon: its light, therefore, has an androgynous or hermaphrodite character. On the other hand, the Rebis corresponds to Matter prepared for the definitive Work, or in other words, the Companion who has made himself worthy of rising to Mastery.
In this respect, nothing could be stranger than a pentacle that appeared in around 1659-60 in the Azoth treatise that is a continuation of the Twelve Philosophical Keys by brother Basil Valentine, Friar of the Order of Saint Benedict. 
As can be deduced from the copy of the original wooden carving that we reproduce here, the alchemical Androgyne appears as the vanquisher of the dragon of elemental life, or as an Initiate of the second grade who has triumphed over the quaternary of elements. One of his heads is ruled by the Sun (Reason) and the other by the Moon (Imagination); between them we can see the star of Mercury  (Intelligence, Understanding, Gnosis). Mars  and Venus  (Iron and Copper, hard metals) then exert their influence over the right side (activity); the left side (passivity) receives the influence of Jupiter  and of Saturn (Tin and Lead, soft metals). Mars  (Energy, Movement, Action) is also related directly to the right arm, which strikes, carries out the decided act, while the left arm which has the mission of holding up the shield firmly, and of maintaining morale, is linked to Jupiter  (Conscience, Self Respect). In all of this there would be nothing but pure hermetism if it were not for the fact that, in order to underline the unified duality of the Rebis, its personified character holds a Compass (Truth, Reason, Intellectuality) in his right hand and in his left a Set Square (Equity, Sentiment, Morality).
It is surprising to encounter these typical emblems of the royal art in a tract that aims to instruct “the manner of making the secret gold of the philosophers” and whose author lived in an era long before the renaissance of modern freemasonry. 
The adept cannot realize the Rebis unless he has dominated his elemental attractions. Everything in him that is inferior, crudely and basely instinctive must be dominated before he will be permitted to call upon the Heavenly Fire to enter his body. In other words, it is a question of overcoming animality in order that the actual Man be in charge of himself. And therefore the Pentagram or the Shining Star are, rightly, emblems of  Man freed from all that which impeded him from being solely Man and fully Man. 
The five points of this figure, also called the Microcosmic Star, correspond to the four limbs and the head of the man.
And in the same way that the limbs execute that which the head orders, the Pentagram is also the symbol of sovereign will, against which nothing can resist as long as it is unyielding, fair and unselfish. 
In order for the five-pointed star to conserve this meaning, it must be drawn such that a human figure can be drawn inside it in a normal position, with the head pointing upwards. When it is reversed, it takes on a diametrically opposed meaning.

It is no longer the shining Pentalpha, or Star of the Wise Men, the emblem of human ingenuity and of liberty, but instead the dark star of base instincts, of the lubricious ardours that dominate the animal kingdom; the outline of the head of a he-goat can be seen within it. 
From the initiatic point of view, to possess Companionship means already the ability to carry out what the layman would call miracles. Possessed of the Rule and the Lever, the Initiate lifts up the world – the moral world, naturally, which is on the other hand the only one that it is important to raise.
The Master
What, then, will the Master do? He will identify with the Great Architect of the Universe, in order that this will act on him and for him. Evidently it is a thing of pure mysticism, I agree. But this tends to prove that religious mysticism, in the final analysis, is in concordance with high level initiation. Proceeding by three successive paths, called purgative, enlightening and unifying, the mystic is no less logical in the imposition of his modifications, which, if they have been well understood, would achieve the same end as the initiatic tests. To be mortified - to truly repent - means dying for something. Death is imposed on us twice in Masonry, once at the beginning of our journey, in the Chamber of Reflection, and later, at the moment of definitive and complete initiation in the Middle Chamber.
This second death corresponds to the fulfilment of the Great Work. It equates to the total sacrifice of oneself, based on the renunciation of all personal desires. It is the extinguishing of radical Egoism, that provoked the fall of Adam by exerting the original Attraction on spirituality, in order to cause it to incorporate matter. 
 The narrow, mean I fades away in the face of the superior, impersonal Being that symbolises Hiram. Thus the legendary, universal sin of Adam is retracted. Because there can be no mistaking it: the Architect of the Temple is to the Great Architect of the Universe what the Word made flesh, or Jesus Christ, is to the Eternal Father of Christian ideology. 32
The fixation of the philosophical Sulphur, also known as the Mastery, is represented by the torture of Prometheus, chained to the Caucasus in punishment for stealing Fire from Heaven, and also by Christ the Redeemer, hung by three nails to the four branches of the cross. 
The Tarot is no less explicit in this respect. Its twelfth key offers, in effect, the image of a Hanged Man who swings, smiling, between the heavens and the earth. He is joined by the left foot to a crossbeam that is held up by two trees without branches, that correspond to the J. and B. columns. 
The Head and arms form an inverted triangle, that rises up over a cross formed by the right leg folded behind the left, a conjunction that forms the classic sign of fulfilment of the Great Work. This strange condemned soul carries two bags, from which gold and silver coins spill out. These are the treasures of his intelligence, because this dreamer who appears to be reduced to impotence because his hands are tied, still sows the seeds of the fertile ideas from whence the future will spring. 
This is also the role of the Master, who, in order to usefully direct the work of universal construction, must enter into a close communion of intentions and will with the Great Architect. Here he is called to realise the mystical ideal of the Man-God, who is invested with sovereign spiritual power due to his detachment from all lower things.33 As he is no longer a slave to anything, he becomes lord of everything and his will alone is exercised in perfect accordance with the will that governs the Universe. 
Hanging between the Abstract and the Concrete, between creative Intelligence and objective Creation, the Man thus conceived appears as a Mediator par excellence, or the true Demiurge of the gnostic schools. But in this sense, it is not enough to carry the light back to its primordial source; it is also necessary that he remain closely linked to the workers whom it is his duty to shape and direct. The essential bond here is that of sympathy. The master must make himself beloved, and he can have no greater success than by loving himself with a generosity that carries him to the point of absolute devotion, to the sacrifice of his own self. 
The Pelican is, from this point of view, the symbol of that charity, without which, in the initiation, everything would be irremediably futile.
The most brilliant gifts of intelligence and will would make nothing but a false magician of the adept who has not nurtured the qualities of his heart. As for the reward of he who has become elevated by virtue of emotion as well as of science, it resides in the Triangle of Solomon. 
The two interlocking triangles form the Macrocosmic Star or the star of the World at Large. They symbolise the union of the Father and the Mother, of God and Nature, of the single Spirit and the universal Soul, of procreative Fire and life-giving Water. It is the pentacle beyond compare, the symbol of power that nothing can resist, and that we will possess if we do indeed reach the grade of Master. 










APPENDIX
A disconcerting Symbolism
An alchemical Painting

A Disconcerting Symbolism
Investigating the context of an alchemical painting which was displayed for a long time in a church for the edification of the disciples, and which later provoked fears that it was a wicked work of art created by the Freemasons. 



The Courrier de la Champagne was a newspaper that habitually attacked Freemasonry in the province of Champagne, and on the 26th of January 1907 it received the following letter, which it published without delay: 

“To the Editor, 

I consider it my duty to call the attention of your colleague, Father Curieux, to a painting that would be of great interest to the cause of demonstrating the hypocrisy of Freemasonry and its persistently antireligious aims, beneath the cloak of most fervent religion. 
Some years ago this painting was still hanging on display in the Church of Saint Maurice in Reims. Canon Cerf described it in volume III, page 85 of the Journal of the Diocese, taking great pains to find in it Christian inspiration. A little more than two years ago, Father X… communicated the end result of his lengthy studies on the subject of that very painting to the parish. And the conclusion he came to was that even the very smallest details of the painting were Freemason symbols. His explanation was so plausible that from that day forward the painting was removed from the church and kept in the vestry. Mr Malhomme, the photographer from Moulins street, published a photograph, I believe.
I hope that this information may be of some use to your journal, for documentation purposes. 
With the assurance of my greatest respect and consideration, I remain, dear Editor, 
Yours Truly, 
	EMILE PECK
Pastor of Fligny
The following day, the 27th January, a Mr Henri Jadart, the librarian and custodian of the city of Reims’ art museum and archaeological museum, felt it his duty to take up the defence of the incriminated painting, which was of particular interest to him, being an expert on the history of the Church of Saint Maurice.
That painting, he declared, was the legacy of the Jesuits who left the Church in 1762; based on the composition and the elaboration of the components it dated back to the beginnings of the 18th century. Another painting of the same genre that was on display in the Museum was dated 1624, and the Jesuit painting must also date from around the same time.
“The provenance and date are evidence enough to completely disregard, a priori, the supposed Masonic character of this painting. Nor does such a character spring to mind after careful examination, unless one has preconceptions about the work itself.”
This work, according to Mr Jadard, is fully and completely dedicated to the glorification of the Virgin Mother of Christ. It is true that some of the symbolic attributes still remain a mystery, but this is solely due to the “singular mystery of the Jesuits”, whose imaginations sometimes revel in the strangest complexities.
We know that, under the initiative of Abbot Nanquette, the topic of this unsettling mystique was addressed at the 1845 Scientific Congress in Reims, but no further clarification was achieved.
Later, a Mr Lacatte-Joltrois and Father Cerf provided some explanations; others were compiled by the Archeological catalogue of the parishes of Reims (1889), but the exact meaning of the painting has not yet been revealed. 
In order to interpret the symbolism of the painting of Saint Maurice of Reims, it would perhaps be interesting to also study, simultaneously, another painting of the same type, from the same era and doubtless of the same origin as the one displayed in the church in Sillery. 
Mr A. C. de la Rive, the editor of Christian France, intervened in the debate to declare that the symbols from the Saint Maurice painting are indeed those of Martinism, and that the painter wanted to represent the triumph of Isis, who begat Horus. 
Evidently this man, who fights against Masonry on a daily basis, knows it extremely well.
Mr Jadard explains that Martinism was out of the question, given that the painting under scrutiny is manifestly older than the era in which Martinez Pasqualis and Claude de Saint Martin, the unknown philosopher, became well known. 
An archivist, Mr L. Demaison, also testified to the effect that that any expert would agree that the painting from the church of Saint Maurice has all the characteristics of works from the end of the reign of Henri IV, or from the time of Louis XIII. He added that some artists of that era made surprising use of subtle, refined and obscure allegories. 
However, another priest who is also involved in the debate asks whether we are actually faced with a painting from the 17th century, declaring that the main protagonist is based on the Virgin of Saint Sulpice. This priest, being just as competent an archaeologist as Mr. Didron, is of the opinion that consequently the painting could be from the 18th century, and sees no reason why it should not be Masonic. 
For him there is one indisputable point: the Virgin represented in the picture is not the mother of Christ. In fact, the artist actually paints her words: I conceived as a virgin, I have a child but no parents. The second part of the Greek verse lends itself to ambiguity, but it would seem to declare that the virgin who has miraculously conceived has no parents, which is not the case with Jesus’ mother, who was the daughter of Saint Joachim and Saint Anne. It must, therefore, be Isis, the personification of the eternal Life Force, whom the revered Jesuit priests never worshipped. And hence the need to attribute the canvas to a pagan, Martinist or Freemason artist. 
Controversy raged over whether the painting from the church of Saint Maurice of Reims was Masonic or not, and L’Acacia in its 51st issue (1st Volume, 1907, page 224) expressed surprise that the masons had not been called to give their opinion on the subject.
Mr de la Rive subsequently wished to draw upon our experience, and sent a series of photographs to the publishers of L’Acacia, showing the painting as a whole and some of the much-disputed details. He also enclosed a manuscript in which he attempted to prove that everything in this work, that until now had been taken for a religious painting, was actually Masonic.
We are prepared to concede immediately to Mr de la Rive that this is not an everyday pious painting. We are in fact faced with an esoteric and even initiatic painting, but Freemasonry does not appear anywhere.
The symbolism in question is not ours, but that of Alchemy. It is surprising that the erudite scholars who took an interest in the painting from the church of Saint Maurice did not realise this immediately. 
None of them were curious enough to flick through treatises on spagyric art, or hermetic philosophy, like Basil Valentine’s Twelve Keys, editions of which became more and more numerous in the course of the 18th century. It is in this specialist literature that we should seek explanation for a painting that was readily accepted by the Jesuits, given that Alchemy was never punished by excommunication.
This complex philosophy, only ever taught under the guise of highly complicated symbolism, counted a great number of dignitaries of the Church among its followers. All this does not prove anything much, of course, as the same could be said for Freemasonry in the 18th century. However, one thing is still true: the clergy has not always been what it is today. In past times, there were very wise priests, who knew more about the sciences of their age than the laymen. That being said, it is almost impossible for us, from our present day perspective, to have a good idea of the speculations with which the spirits concerned themselves at the dawn of the 17th century. A special kind of mysticism, developed under the influence of Kabbala and Alchemy, had created a fascinating Esoteric Christianity in which reason was combined with faith, thanks to the transcendent interpretations given to the conventional and popular symbols of Catholicism at that time. At the time great thinkers, almost without exception, did not feel choked by the puerilities of the catechism, but stayed within the holy Church, whose doctrines then seemed reasonable even to many heretics and non-believers. Then the Jesuits decided they should capitalise on Hermeticism in order to convert Protestants, Jews and Muslims, regardless of their own lack of interest in the secret sciences, which were very much in vogue during that era.
The secret esoteric doctrine, that attracted some of the -  more illustrious  - members of the Society of Jesus, was not particularly orthodox. This did not matter, as it was not preached in public.34  
Esotericism could not be fed to the masses, who require a much coarser spiritual food. But there is an intellectual aristocracy that it was possible to satisfy, without conceding on a single point, thanks to the remarkable resources of symbolism. “Let us not talk pointlessly, let us observe the silence favoured by the Initiates and sketch these figures, which are enigmas posed to test the wisdom of the observer.” This was the conventional method the Jesuits decided to apply.
When applied rigorously, this method does work to propagate transcendent truths. Those who have eyes to see will perceive them. The others simply gaze, beatifically, understanding nothing. In reality, each person’s level of perception corresponds to their stage of initiation – this being the pure initiation, the natural initiation of Isis, independent of any specific organisation.
This initiation is in the very nature of things. It has always existed, above and beyond churches and initiatic organisations, which by their nature are incapable of carrying out the supreme ideal of initiation.
Long ago it was thought that one day the Church of the Holy Spirit, linked to Saint John the Evangelist, should be based on esotericism and freedom of interpretation, in much the same way as the Church of Jesus Christ, conservative in esoteric terms and with a dogmatic discipline, is built on the name of Saint Peter.35 Then some Jesuits, it seemed, conceived of the audacious project of placing themselves at the head of an expanded Church, a Church that would implement integrated Catholicism; in other words, the truly universal kind.
If they failed in their attempt, it is because they did not know how to attain the essential conditions required to work usefully towards the fulfilment of the Great Work. They should have passed the baton to others, who may have had better luck. 
Now let us examine the famous painting that Mr de la Rive was so hasty to brand  Masonic, quite an inappropriate word.
In actual fact, a symbol is not necessarily Masonic by virtue of the fact that the Freemasons used it. If we have taken something from someone else it does not, by that virtue, become our property. We must try to be honourable and to give to each person that which is theirs.
In this respect, we do not have a very great heritage. The only things which are wholly ours are our tools of construction: the columns J ? and B ? , the Resplendent Star, and that is all. The equilateral Triangle, with the eye or without it, does not belong to us particularly, in the same way that the Acacia, our sacred plant, is also that of the Eastern Jews. 
So then, of all the various symbols that appear in the canvas from the church of Saint Maurice, there is not a single one that is Masonic in the true sense of the word. At most, this quality could perhaps be attributed to the temple that the Virgin holds in her left hand. From one of its windows a long horizontal stick emerges, with a feather hanging from the end of it. This is small grounds on which to excommunicate the entire work of art. 
Nevertheless, Mr de la Rive found almost all the other symbols in masonic documents. All right, but he could also have found them elsewhere, for the minimal effort that it would have cost him to do so.
Having made this point clear, let us turn our attention to the graphic enigma that is posed by this painting. We do not aspire to explain everything, instead we limit our aim to clearing the land for those who come after us and who will be able to investigate further. 
As Mr de la Rive astutely observed, the painter must have been inspired by Virgil’s IV Eclogue, which announces the advent of the Golden Age, as foretold by the Cumaean Sybil. The poet has the intuition that the Iron Age is going to end, thanks to the intervention of a new race that will come down from on high. Astrea, the Virgin, must beget the Saviour, who will establish the blessed kingdom of Saturn all over the world. 
This kingdom, according to Mr de la Rive, corresponds to the God of the Christians, and it is that to which the adveniat regnum tuum (thy kingdom come) of the Lords Prayer refers. 
The hermetic philosophers, as initiates, also believed in the possibility that happiness would reign over the Earth, by means of intelligence, justice and virtue. Their Great Work sought just this, as to them the transformation of lead into gold was just a symbol, which only the ignorant and the greedy took literally. 
In these conditions it is not surprising that in the painting from Saint Maurice of Reims, to the viewer’s right, the temple of the Cumaean Sybil is featured. This circular building is the dominion of Saturn, indicated by the symbol of the god, the scythe, which protrudes from a small window. Saturn cuts off all that has already gone before; he causes that which no longer has reason for being to die and decompose, and thus he becomes the great transformer. 
The Sybil stands on the threshold of the temple, her right hand on a harp, while with the left hand she holds an open book marked with the number 9.
That number is also the number of Saturn, to which Arcanum IX of the Tarot36 refers, the same as the ninth of the ten Sephiroth, Yesod the Foundation.37
This is, beyond comparison or doubt, the number of the mystery that our intellect is called upon to penetrate. The Sybil’s book, therefore, is the book of the occult sciences. It is possible that the sybilline art of prophecy is based on hearing music emanating from the nine celestial spheres, the chords of which fall down onto the harp.
The golden coins, falling at the feet of the Sybil, allude to the oracles that were sold to Tarquin the Proud. Or are they, as in Arcanum XII of the Tarot, a symbol of disinterest? Let us not forget that essential quality needed to dedicate oneself to divination is knowing how to rid oneself of valuable things. 
It is surprising to see the Tritons, blowing their trumpets, who have climbed to the top of the dome that forms the roof of the Sybilline temple. How can these sea-dwelling monsters have sought out such an aerial position? It begs recognition of the fact that they are inhabitants of that Ocean made up of the waters above the celestial firmament, represented by the roof of the temple. 
Their mission consists of whispering to the ears of sensitive souls the premonition of that which they are preparing to carry out. On the other hand, the trumpets are directed towards a ship that is bobbing on a stormy sea, whose sails appear to be filled with the wind of the Tritons’ breath. 
We will come back to this ship and its cargo, after indicating the meaning of the painting’s principal character.

This time the painter must have taken his inspiration from the book of Apocalypse, which in Chapter XII reads as follows: “And a great sign appeared in the sky: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon beneath her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
“And she was with child, and she wailed aloud with pain as she laboured to give birth.”

It then talks of a great red dragon, whose tail sweeps some of the stars from the sky and casts them down to earth. This monster stops before the woman who is giving birth, with the intention of devouring her child as soon as it has been born. 
But there was a battle in the sky “and that great dragon was cast out, the ancient serpent, who is called Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was hurled down to earth, and his angels thrown down with him.
“And when the dragon saw that he had been hurled down to earth, he chased after the woman who had borne a baby boy.
“And the woman was given the two wings of a great eagle, so that she could flee from the serpent into the desert…”
To the initiate, this woman represents the purified substance in which the divine consciousness is made flesh.
This emanates from the Lord our Father, seen as the eternal and omnipotent starting point of all activity and, consequently, as the Universal Origin of Consciousness.
His Son is the direct irradiation of his essence, whence his Thought made Manifest, his Word, which is the acting force of divinity.
The Holy Spirit comes from both the Father and the Son simultaneously; the direct result of the divine thought, not yet expressed or formulated, but spiritually conceived by the divine consciousness, if it can be explained in such a way. 
This transcendent thought, the essence of which is incomprehensible, can only become manifest by taking bodily form in a consciousness that by its exceptional purity has become receptive. This is the explanation for the work of the Holy Spirit that fertilises the immaculate Virgin in Catholicism.
If this Virgin presents esoteric analogies with Isis and many other pagan gods, the reason is that fundamentally there is only one esotericism38, which manifests itself in different ways, just like the fantasies of the poet-philosophers who created the early legends. Seen in this light, Catholics today lack syncretism when they refuse to recognise their own Virgin in the Queen of Heaven glorified in the painting of Saint Maurice of Reims, as there is no doubt that the artist was trying to represent the Mother of Christ. The truth is that the idea of Christ held by the reverend Fathers of the 17th century did not, perhaps, coincide with that of the Baby Jesus of devotees today: it was conceptualised on an infinitely higher level.
Ultimately, if the picture under scrutiny is sinful in any way from the religious point of view, it is precisely because it is excessively Catholic, in the strict sense of the word. It is an attempt to Catholicise or universalize far beyond the limits of that which the dimly lit faith of a flock, that does not honour its divine shepherd, could recognise.
 In order to interpret the initiatic symbolism of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance more precisely, nothing is more useful than the twenty-two kabbalistic trumps of the Tarot. We have to see, in them, the true Alphabet of the initiates, by way of which a wise spirit can learn to decipher certain graphical mysteries that are charged with translating secrets that would be dangerous to spread indiscriminately.
So let us unfold before us the images of this mysterious treatise of high philosophy, and search for our Virgin from the painting at Saint Maurice.

We will recognise her immediately in the Empress of Arcanum III. This Queen of Heaven is shown as the virginal Mother of all things. She carries the sceptre of universal fertility, linking her to Venus-Urania and to the Babylonians’ Ishtar, who was seen as the creator of all the idealistic forms and the emblems of ideas, which shape the whole of creation.
She reigns over the luminous ocean in which creative thought is reflected, and whose waves are the same as the higher Waters in Genesis, separated from the earthly waters beneath the firmament. She has the wings that the Seer of Patmos attributed to her and twelve stars form a shining crown about her head, while her foot rests on a half moon. In effect, she is an ethereal personage who resides in the sublime realms of pure intelligence, above the changeable, sub-lunar world. 
Not being well versed in the refinements of symbolism, most artists will allow the foot of the Madonna to fit in the hollow of the half moon, with the points turning upwards. However, we also see virgins resting their foot on the curve of a half moon, with the points turned downwards. 
From the hermetic point of view,this is much more correct, as the whole of Arcanum III, simplified in the stark lines of a symbol, is represented in the sign of Mercury with the points facing down .
The central element of this symbol, the empty circle, represents the primordial substance, universal and, necessarily, singular. According to Pernéty it is Alum, the “saline base of other salts, of minerals, and of metals.”
Depending on whether the half moon is placed below or above this circle, you obtain Alkaline Salt or Gem Salt , which play equal parts in the makeup of the chaotic universal substance. But the first substance is dominated by the moon, and therefore it is infinitely transformable’ it is the first matter of the Great Work, the sphere of all the metamorphoses of Nature and art. The second represents a substance that has become immobile, because every possible kind of development has been realised, so that it becomes removed from external influences, ready to exert a powerful modifying force over everything that is subject to change. 

Now, what further meaning does the addition of the cross bring to these elements, already so significant? Far from alluding to death, as one might imagine, this is the symbol of life. But it springs from the interaction of two opposites: the Agent, represented by the vertical line and the Patient, by the horizontal. Without work there is no life, without the active working on the passive, an intelligent force on inert matter.
In the same way as the half moon, the cross is drawn both atop and below other elements of alchemical symbols. In the former case, it indicates a job well done, perfection permanently achieved. In the second, on the other hand, it represents an active life force that wants to be exercised, with latent virtues hardened like a seed in the hope that they will one day develop. 
The symbol  can refer to nothing more than a subtle entity that has reached its highest level of evolution, purity and active power. Hermetists used this symbol to denote their Antimony, which designates the permanent Water, the heavenly water, with which they purify the philosophical gold and clean it of all impurities. 

The Virgin of the Sacristy at the Church of Saint Thomas of Aquinas, in Paris. 17th century wooden sculpture. The Spanish artist has shown good judgement in his application of traditional symbolism. 

If we search for this original base in our own personalities, we will recognise that which our fathers called the Intellectual Soul, which tends to separate us from the material world39, raising us up and spiritualising us.
In opposition to this principle of dematerialisation and ascent we have Venus , the Instinctive Soul, which continuously tempts the spirit to descend into the material plane to take bodily form. 

In summary, the signs  and are combined in , the ideogram of the celestial virgin, personification of the highest spirituality, Intelligence (Binah) or understanding (Gnosis), as opposed to brutality, lack of intelligence, lack of understanding or stupidity, which are represented by the Beast of the Apocalypse, the Python or the Dragon, whose blind rage is impotent against the serenity of the Sovereign of the spiritual realm.

This monster is a kind of sphynx that sprang forth from the four elements. The front half of its body is a lion that spews fire from its mouth (Earth and Fire), but it has wings (Air) and the rest of it is a water-dwelling animal (Water). It represents the base matter, which must be defeated, dominated and tamed by Intelligence. 
In Arcanum XI of the Tarot we find the woman of Arcanum III, effortlessly holding open the jaws of a raging lion. It is the Force, not physical energy but the irresistible power of thought, that triumphs over all brutality. 

This same woman is found in Arcanum VIII, in the guise of Justice40. Here she is the personification of necessary logic, the inescapable reason that formulates the universal law by which everything occurs in nature. It is the guiding principle of all organic life, by which the primitive Chaos is untangled, and from which this admirable order springs forth that gives the eighth Sephirah its name, Hod, meaning Splendour, Glory. 
It is easy to wonder whether there is not some allusion to this sephirah in the eight stars which circle the head of the Virgin in the Saint Maurice painting. 
In contrast to this crown of pentagrams, we see at the Virgin’s feet, and at the same angle as the symbol itself, a winged globe, divided laterally into two hemispheres by a large circle. This detail is important, as it brings us back to Nitre , which alchemists also called Cerberus or Infernal Salt.

On this topic, let us not forget that one of the most mysterious interpretations of the initials INRI: Igne Nitrium Roris Invenitur – By the fire the nitre of the dew is revealed – supposes that dew is the heavenly water that condenses on the surfaces of earthly bodies. It is the physical deposit of the universal spirit of nature, that is concentrated in nitre, which is presented as a fundamentally active substance, the vehicle of the most active forces. In the human condition, it is what we might call the Mobile Soul, which arouses all our irresistible impulses. 

The Nitre of the Dew is the Devil that is in all of our bodies and that we have committed to the service of the divine ideal: it is impatient action at the command of inspiration.  
The impulsive ardour becomes particularly manifest under the influence of Venus, the woman who, with an inflamed heart in her hand, seems to almost be escaping from the winged globe. It is passion externalized, that gives birth to Love, that is, a blind force – Cupid is blindfolded – that is subject to rigorous rules. This sentimentality, of a more physiological type, is contained to the sub-lunar realm, above which pure spirituality reigns.

As messengers, she has two angels with chubby cheeks whose heads appear on both sides of the Virgin’s head. They puff and blow the wind of the Spirit. The one on the right has a red wing, while the one on the left has a white wing. These colours correspond, respectively, to the columns of Jakin and Bohas, in that inspiration can either incite one to action (red) or illuminate ones understanding (white).
The Saint Maurice painting as a whole, on the other hand, takes this dualism into account. Everything on the right hand side of the Virgin is linked to the practice of the Great Work, and to carrying it out via the wet or mystical path, represented by the ship tossing on the waves of the cosmic Ocean. The left hand side is dedicated to theory, to the contemplation by way of which the Adept conquers the secrets of a Wisdom that is of great value for its own sake41. In this sense, this work is linked to the dry or rational path, never straying from the firm ground, whose solidity offers the basis for transcendent positivity. 


*  *  *

For the moment, let us focus on the sphere of gnosis or of spiritual illumination, whose temple the Virgin lifts up to us. 
This circular building has four visible windows, each with one of the symbols of the four elements in its frame: the scythe of Saturn (Earth), the trident of Neptune (Water), the thunderbolt of Jupiter (Fire) and the winged staff of Mercury (Air). But this quaternary is united by the rooster that sits atop the dome of the temple. This bird, dedicated to Mercury as the god of subtlety and intelligence, announces the dawn of the day that must break within all souls. The need to withdraw deep inside oneself and to penetrate to the very centre from which the internal light springs, that which illuminates everyone who comes into this world, is shown by the plumbline suspended from a horizontal stick that emerges from one of the nine upper windows on the right hand side of the temple, like the crossbar of a gallows. 

 Immediately underneath the temple and the plumbline there is a character dressed in red, which is difficult to reconcile with the image of Saint Joachim, the maternal grandfather of Jesus. Why would the husband of Saint Anne wear the headgear of a doctor? Why would he also be given the winged staff or caduceus? 
Mr de la Rive wondered whether we were not looking at the architect of the temple of Solomon; but with nothing to support this hypothesis, the editor of Christian France sees a priest of Isis instead of Hiram. It seems to us that he was correct on this point, because this must be an Adept figure, learned in the science of Hermes and armed with the powers that the higher initiation confers. The character’s instruments leave no room for doubt on this point. 
The most notable of these is the caduceus, a golden wand with two serpents coiling around it that represent the contrariwise polarity flows of the great magical agent, known to occultists by the name of Astral Light. The initiate must know how to harness these forces, in order to apply them42 to produce effects that seem miraculous to the layman, who is ignorant of the natural, albeit mysterious, cause. 
He who is both the son and the lover of Isis, or in other words, the disciple and confidante of Nature, adds the combination of the magic wand and the ring of Hermes to the caduceus. 
The wand is the image of the subtle conductor that establishes the link with the suprasensory world. Whoever possesses this wand is bestowed with a sort of sixth sense, an invaluable guide in magical operations. 
The ring, provided by the hermetic Seal, implies participation in the universal alliance of those who know the secrets of the eternal tradition, Kabbala. 
Alongside these instruments, which are held together in the figure’s left hand, the passive or receptive side, we have also the closed book and the sacrificial knife in the right hand, the active side. 
The book holds the personal work of the initiate, who has therein recorded a summary of the whole of his secret faith, the truths that he has come to discern through his own efforts of meditation.
The knife serves for dissolving, for cutting bonds, in the same way as the caduceus is for solidifying and fixing. The adept must, effectively, know how to intervene at the right time to disperse accumulated unconscious energies which, if they were to explode, would bring the worst of catastrophes. 
The magic sword plays a similar role, warding off phantoms by threatening to puncture the protective layer that surrounds them, a thin film rather like the skin of a soap bubble. The sword of the Word (Reason) is the weapon of the Wise man.
If the adept is shown with bare feet, it is because he has been admitted into the Holy of Holies: he is allowed to set foot on consecrated ground, which would be fatal to the layperson, but only on the condition that he places himself in the line of direct communication with the divinized matter, with the translations of divinity in images and symbols. With shoes on, one is unable to feel that which emanates from the depths of the earth, from inside the inspiration of Iris. 
In front of the adept is a basket with some tools for writing or engraving. Among other things we can see a bundle that is difficult to describe, and which Mr de la Rive perceives to be ears of corn. The painter, who in general is quite good at representing objects, should have painted something different here. We cannot believe that it is an allusion to the password of the Companions43. It is probably some pencils, a ruler, an eraser and a pen. The two stones next to it could be Philosophers’ Stone material – rough and crude in appearance, that only the Wise man can discover its true worth. 
On the left of the Adept, wearing a kind of red habit (masculine activity, Jakin) is a woman dressed otherwise entirely in white (feminine receptivity, Bohas). This is the priestess of Isis, the inseparable companion of the adept, as she represents his faculties of intuition. The flame that burns by the left shoulder illuminates the spirit with its philosophical light, aiming for the emotions rather than for cold reason. There are, in fact, truths that have to be felt, because although they might be out of the control of strict logic, this does not mean they will stop weighing upon the heart with irresistible power. These are the truths that protect us from sterile scepticism, the destructor of all conviction. On the left hand side of the priest hangs a bag, alluding to alms, charity, the sense of compassion for your neighbour without which the most brilliant initiates would be nothing more than trumpeting brass and crashing symbols. 
The Adept’s companion, finally, holds a mirror in her right hand, which reflects images of the astral light. These images are alive: they run rings around imaginations, they provoke dreams, they feed on the thoughts that they engender, the desires that they stimulate and the aspirations that they fuel. They are endlessly renewed throughout the ages, mental phantoms that serve as vehicles for this undying Tradition, independent of the memories of men or of physical documents, that is written in ethereal characters in the mysterious book of the great Revealer.
The remaining symbols to examine are more typical of alchemy, like for example the ovoid vase that the Virgin holds in her right hand. This is the Philosophical Egg, or put in another way, the vessel of ature in which the operations of the Great Work are carried out, leading to the birth of the Philosophical Child whose destiny is “to enrich and perfect his brothers.
The Subject of the Work is closed inside the Egg after having been carefully chosen, cleaned of any foreign bodies that may have accidentally become stuck to its surface. This is the same process, in different terms, as the choice of the prophet?? who removes all of his metal adornments before being closed inside the Chamber of Reflection. 
The symbolic death of the neophyte corresponds to the putrefaction of the material, which turns black (Earth Test).
The aim of the putrid decomposition, an essential phase for all regeneration, is to separate the fine from the dense. Anything weighty and inert sinks to the bottom and falls prey to the Raven of Saturn, a ravenous bird, the symbol of avid, constrictive energy, the base of individual selfishness. The ethereal bases, on the other hand, separate and rise to the highest heights (Air Test).
This splitting does not last forever as the evaporated particles, once risen, condense and fall again in the form of continuous rains that gradually wash the material, changing it from black to white, passing through all the intermediate shades of grey (Water Test). 
The material, having reached the grade of purity signalled by perfect whiteness, has only to reach the colour red, by means of the exaltation of sulphuric flame (Fire Test).
When this colour is obtained it means that the Simple Work has been fulfilled, corresponding to the medicine of the first order or initiation to the grade of Apprentice. 
The philosophical vessel ends in a gradually widening tube from which several carnations emerge, their colours reminiscent of the transformations that have taken place in the material of the Great Work. The ephemeral presence of the shifting hues between bladck and white are characterised by the unfurled peacock’s tail that crowns the Philosophical Egg. As handles, the vase has four eagle heads in the shape of the Cross, which indicate the fixation of the quaternary (of elemental trials) by which the most finely sublimated mercury takes on physical form with the wholly purified raw matter (Enlightenment of the Companion). After seeing the light, the mercury attracts this matter in order to saturate itself and transform into the Shining Star. 

A sort of celestial sphere surrounds the Egg, with a horizontal band that crosses it diagonally, in which there are just four symbols that follow one another in an unusual order. After Cancer and Leon comes Libra, followed by Pisces. 

The operations of the Great Work that correspond to these signs are dissolution, digestion, sublimation and projection. This last one is the means by which the supreme transmutation occurs, the objective of the medicine of the third order (Mastery). 
The centre of the zodiacal circle matches that of the philosophical egg, and this centre is marked by the symbol of alum , as if to say that the mathematical centre point of every being can be confused with infinity . A second, golden circle is superimposed on the first, dominating it. This is an allusion to the resulting sublimation of the self. 
Our task becomes mightily difficult when we turn to cast light on the mysteries of the boat sailing to the right of the Virgin. This is the boat of Isis, which makes the crossing of the Ocean of Life possible; its sails filled with the breath of the Universal Spirit capture the idea of the driving enthusiasm that caused the Cyclops to fall into the sea. 
This figure, who should have been looking out from the crow’s nest on the main mast, lost his balance under the influence of celestial intoxication.
In the same way as the Fool in the Tarot, he then becomes the passive instrument of the force that takes control of him. He has no control and abandons himself unreservedly to his impulses, without thinking. His single eye means he can only half judge, but what he lacks in perception he makes up for with brute force; he wields tremendous but half blind power, which is symbolised by the stick in his left hand (The Power of the Blind Believer). The flute he carries slung around his neck lets him play his role in the orchestra of the god Pan (the talent of charming wild animals).

This rash, disconcerting individual has to be thrown out of the mystical boat: his presence on board makes the crossing more perilous. For the crossing to succeed, the look-out needs to be a sensitive man in full possession of his faculties. This is what happens with the man who has climbed the second mast, tied on by a string that Mercury then unties, whilst his gaze follows the Cyclops as he falls – a destiny that he can only avoid himself by way of absolute detachment. However, the tyranny of instinctive appetites, like a necessary counterweight, works against the total oblivion of oneself. This results in a painful conflict, alluded to by the raven that pecks at the chest of the enlightened one, punishing him for having imitated Prometheus and stolen the heavenly fire.  
This fire, on the other hand, is what makes the Cyclops fall, in the same way that in the Tarot it provokes the catastrophe of Arcanum XVI. The form of the Cyclops also corresponds to the king who falls from the top of the fulminated tower, called the House of God.  In the Reims painting, the thunderbolt is replaced by a sort of comet, with a horn of plenty attached to its tail. The horn springs from the centre of a luminous circle drawn inside a triangle which is the alchemical sign for Fire . The object of this grouping is to remind us that perfect happiness, which confers supreme wealth and true prosperity, has its origins in the celestial fire that burns the purest souls. Igne Natura Renovatur Integra44. 
At the stern of the sacred ship, beside a third broken mast, is the Philosophical Child seated on a shining heart. This helmsman represents Reason (the Word made flesh, the Son of God to the Christians, Buddhi to the theosophists), resting on the emotion and the light that emanate from him to take shape as the origin of conscience, that guides all human actions. 
The Globe of the World, that rests on the Redeemer’s knees, is the symbol of the universal spirit of all things, destined to evolve until finally attaining perfection. That is the meaning of the alchemical symbol , with the cross dominating the symbol of material nature, of the Earth as a living being. 
On board the ship, the command falls to the King who represents the Will, whose orders are final. Above his crown is the number 1266, and between his sceptre and right shoulder is the number 1137. 
We have given up on attempts to clarify the meaning of these two figures, which are inscribed again on the winged globe at the feet of the Virgin. They could have a historical referent as passwords, the first referring to the act of theoretically formulating volitions and the second to their practical execution. These interpretive hypotheses have little in the way of solid foundation.  Having confirmed that 1 + 2 + 2 + 6 = 15 and 1 + 1 + 3 + 7 = 12, we have not made much progress: the enigma remains. 
In front of the King and the Child-Helmsman, an old man dressed in a sort of tunic leans against the gunwale. In his right hand is a flowering hazel branch, and in the left two green hazelnuts that he offers without flinching to the dragon of elemental life. He is the Master of the Life Force (Prana or Jiva to the Buddhists), and as such, he dominates the Corporeal Spirit (Venus). He has the ability to expand life (the flowering branch) or to concentrate it (the fruits).
In the middle of the boat is another old man dressed in black. In his left hand is an open book, with a tiny wooden hut standing over it. Here we have that knot of self upon which everything rests, which the Eastern occultists called the Astral body and the Buddhists call Linga Sharira. This character is none other than the Hermit of the Tarot (Arcanum IX), who is the same as Twashtri, the Carpenter of the Vedas, who has the task of constructing the astral shape, the Foundation (Yesod, 9th Sephira) of the physical organism.
The two masts that fly the sails are joined at the base, and before them stands a warrior with helmet and shield, holding a simple staff in his right hand while his left holds out a statue of Minerva to the aforementioned old man. This is Mars, the force of active enthusiasm, who will turn his energy to the service of a wisely balanced will.
As the last of the seafarers, we must also mention the young Hercules, distinguished by his club and the lion’s pelt he wears as a headdress. The animal’s hind legs are crossed over the young man’s chest, which calls to mind the Lover in the Tarot (Arcanum VI), who is at the service of the Good Shepherd. Without the help of this figure, furthermore, how could we explain the upside down Y, , that stands out clearly on the edge of the ship facing our character? This letter indicates a forking of the route at which the Lover has stopped, confused, not knowing whether to take the right or left path, as he is beckoned by two equally beautiful women. One represents Pleasure, Complacency, and Comfort, and the other Work, Frugality, and Virtue. Hercules, at the beginning of his trials, had to choose between two different ways of regarding life. Therefore the young hero represents the free arbiter, and he is situated, appropriately, in the forward part of the boat above Mars, who can only put his powers to use through the deterministic force of will. 
That boat represents the organism that transports the sevenfold conscious self, freed from its primitive instincts (the Cyclops that falls into the sea). In reality, there are eight characters still on board, one of whom is a king with a crown and a sceptre in his hand. He is the captain in command of the crew, the individual spirit, lord of the composite self. He stands near the helmsman, who is the conscience, and whose basis is the sense of compassion that links him to everything else in the Universe (religion in the highest sense of the word). An old man dressed in white forms the third point of the triangle with these two characters. He leans out over the ocean, the sediment of life, and towards the dragon, the capacitor of the life force. He has a flowering branch in his hand, and he offers fruits, as if he wished to maintain a vitality on board that flourishes in conditions of purity. The second old man dressed in black is constructive experience. He holds tradition (the book), representing protection of the organism. Mars defends the self against outside enemies. He carries out the king’s orders - given to him by the free arbiter, symbolised by the young Hercules – in the prow under the gaze of the helmsman, conscience.
There remains the lookout, bound by Mercury to the upper part of the main mast, merged with it to form a single whole, whose aim is to be alert to the call of the sirens. This is the intuition, that senses and foresees things with judicious, Mercurial subtlety. The sails of the ship are filled with the intrepid breath of the Spirit.
From all that we have said until now, the painting that we have analysed reveals a symbolism which, although it may not be that of present-day Christian mysticism, is still religious. It is initiatic, but it is rooted in the highest level hermeticism, without being directly related to Masonic allegories. We have here an example of Catholic art that should not cause scandal among the faithful. 



An Alchemical Painting
The February 1908 issue of Vrijmetselaar45 used the above title for an extensive piece on our study “A disconcerting symbolism”. (See the previous chapter). 
Some of our interpretations have given rise to commentaries of which we would like to make a quick analysis. 
The Dutch critic’s attention focussed entirely on the temple of Saturn that stands on the right hand side of the painting from Saint Maurice of Reims. 
The sickle and the hourglass have not always been attributes of Saturn, whom the ancient Romans used to represent with no wings and a simple serpent. The god of the fields, Saturn was master of the art of horticulture, including the pruning of vineyards and fruit trees. As always, the popular mythology served to conceal a profound esotericism. Governing the sap, being economical with the use of the lifeblood, directing it only to those branches that are needed to bear fruit; this is the mission of the gods, which has no mercy with dead wood or unproductive shoots. It is no longer blind destruction, slashing about indiscriminately, but rather the agent of progress via selection, the regulatory principle of all production of life. This means that death only serves to reinforce fertile and productive life, which is the universal law. 
The Sybil is the priestess of the Temple of Saturn, because divination is founded in the understanding of the occult causes down in the depths where that god reigns.  The fundamental unity of things would be revealed to us if we were able to penetrate down to the cause of causes, the key to all mysteries. But these could not be revealed without the vibrating strings of the harp on which the Sybil leans. This means that it is not enough for the seer to develop his ability to penetrate the spirit, his faculties of reasoning and of understanding. Because where would the fortune-teller be without this musical sensibility that perceives the chords of subtle harmony between things? To make ourselves more sensible we must be disinterested, like the Sybil, indifferent to the gold coins that fall at her feet; we must know how to rid ourselves of our metals, like the masonic ritual demands. Egoism, the love of riches and the thirst for honour paralyse our lucidity and stand like a folding screen to block our spiritual vision. It is the symbolic blindfold over the eyes of the ignorant one who has failed to conquer the light. 
The two tritons playing the trumpet on the domed roof of the temple of Saturn spurred our colleague on to an extensive discourse on the Elements, understood as the Four Winds of the Spirit. On that topic, the modifications that have been made to the ancient masonic rituals are deplorable beyond belief. All that they did not understand has been lost, our commentator claims,  and – even more disastrous – so has that which they believed they did understand. Having persistently confused the Elements of the ancients with the simple bodies of modern chemistry, they were unable to hark back to the notion of the Quaternary of elements, the agent that works to differentiate the primordial substance, which is essentially singular. Earth, Water, Air and Fire represent, respectively, the source of a solid, liquid, gaseous or ethereal state. Analogical relationships have also been established between the Earth and the Body, the Water and the Soul, the Air and the Spirit, Fire and the universal Driving Principle. 
 These equivalencies allow us to look at the Water test, in the form in which it was used in all the initiation rites, as the image of the passage from sensual life to spiritual life. The animal man, submerged in the current of objectivity, cannot free himself without overcoming his animality. He rises up out of the Water to the true state of manhood, of a man that is fully Man. 
As we pass through the elements, we give back that which belongs to them, that in ourselves which is inferior; by sacrificing our egoism we lay ourselves open to greater and greater infiltration by the divinity that brings us closer to Unity. A new sentiment then develops in us: that of universal love. Until we experience it, we will be nothing more than false initiates, irrespective of all our wisdom and acquired talents. 
If we now begin to ask ourselves what is that water in which the Tritons, more aerial than aquatic, swim, we would do well to refer to Indian mythology. There we are shown Varuna, who is no longer a simple Neptune, “lord of the waters” as the Purana says, but rather the primitive King of all earthly things, whose kingdom, like that of Uranus, is the whole wide world. It is he who, by giving concrete form to the fluid universal substance, made the Heavens and the Earth emerge from chaos.
This Water, the tritons’ natural environment, is as matter that is independent of all the many forms and aspects it is capable of displaying. It holds within it all the possibilities of formation and transformation; but these forms and their modifications are not determined arbitrarily. The future is enclosed in this matter in such a way that simply finding out the law that governs it is enough to gain the skill of divination and prophecy. 
Varuna’s breath is the wind that fans the flames of the sun and makes it burn, just as it makes the stars shine; without him they would fizzle out like dead coals. This breath governs every last action of all creatures, for no being could even blink without him. He is the spirit that carries out the law of divine manifestation in Nature, which is why it is said of Varuna that he knows everything that has ever been and everything that will ever be. And in fact what was, what is and what will be is all the same thing, as it is all included within the unity of nature itself. 
Now we can understand why the Tritons, from the material sphere, confer foresight of the future onto strong souls, that are able to prevent themselves from being distracted from what Nature is trying to show them. In fact, Nature wants to reveal its secrets – even those of the future – to someone who faithfully searches in her for the truth. He who wants to listen will hear her voice, will perceive the tritons’ warnings. 
The editor of Vrijmetselaar makes some interesting observations about the plumbline hanging from the end of the pole that sticks out of one of the windows of the little temple that the Virgin in the Reims painting holds up in her left hand. He acknowledges that we have provided a hitherto unheard-of interpretation of that plumb line by linking it to the need to descend into oneself and penetrate to the centre from which the inner light springs, the same light which according to the Gospel of Saint John illuminates every man who comes into this world.  In fact, none of the authors who write about masonic symbolism consider the plumbline in any other way than as a tool of the art of construction. They have decided, consequently, that it is the tool for construction at height, without observing that it also works for depths. The plumb line in the alchemical painting alludes to the depth of a vertical pool, that goes down to the belly of the Earth. It is suspended over the head of the adept, who has to withdraw inside himself in order to reach the core of his being, where he will uncover the quintessential mystery that is the essence of his true self, freed from all contingencies of form. “Know thyself”, the plumbline says, because whoever learns, like Socrates, to really know himself will learn to see the fundamental Unity in the identity of Everything. By going deep within, the thinker reaches an emotional understanding of something, he learns to take ownership of it and love it, not just in isolation but also in relation with the universal whole. 
The Vrijmetselaar considers our interpretation of the plumbline worthy of being adopted by the masons, as it has the advantage of explaining why this instrument is the emblem of the second Sentinel, next to the North Column. 
This marvellously fitting interpretation is more profound than that given by Klein in a study published in Ars Quator Coronaturum, vol. IX.
Our interpretation does not contradict the generally accepted one, as in practical masonry the plumb line governs the vertical dimension, whether the context is excavation work or a tower; in order to be solid, a building should not lean to one side or another.
In speculative or philosophical masonry, the plumb line is the symbol of a centripetal force, an external action that penetrates inwards, like that which alchemists attribute to Mercury. In contrast, the level, whose shape is reminiscent of the symbol for Sulphur , alludes to the principle of individual expansion, translated as a radiation that starts from the centre and spreads outwards.
The masons have never had any doubts over the attribution of the moveable toys that are the Master’s Set Square, the Level (emblem of the First Sentinel) and the Perpendicular, lined to the Second Inspector. Graduating from the Perpendicular to the Level means rising from the first to the second grade. Thus Apprentices are linked to the Second Inspector and Companions to the First. As Apprentices are housed in the North and the Companions in the South, logic demands that the Inspectors are correctly placed to observe them – the First observing the Companions and the Second the Apprentices. According to tradition, the requirements can be satisfied in different ways. It has been established that the  Level-Sulphur , active masculine initiative, corresponds to the Sun  and the Perpendicular-Mercury, passive feminine receptivity, to the Moon .
However, Masonic symbolism carries contradictions that appear to be deliberate. For example the Level, the sign of the First Companion, corresponds to the Apprentice and to the Column of Jakis, which is where the Apprentices receive their wages. They go through the trials of the ancient solar, masculine or Doric initiation. They have to concentrate on their own selves, descending to the sulphuric centre where their internal fire burns. Carefully insulated from the outside, this individual fire should be gradually fanned to greater flames. The Apprentice, removed from all outside influences, dedicates himself to Dorism and tries to reach full possession of himself. As the son of Apollo, he fights against the shadows all around him and in the end conquers the light, after having won several victories over himself by virtue of his own power. When he has won, fanning the flames of the solar fire inside him, the First Inspector rewards him and admits him to the group of Companions that are under the aegis of the Level. 
The perpendicular that belongs to the second Inspector is an invitation to the neophyte to disregard his own self, his own energy, and to then go deep down inside himself, to the diabolical depths where heroes are initiated in the secrets of action. But after this descent, the Initiate rises up again, to discover a light that is no longer that of Sulphur , but that emanates from everywhere, from the infinite atmosphere, the kingdom of Mercury. Once the Initiate is a Companion, Mercury represents the work of concentrating this diffused clarity and condensing it around himself like a luminous aura.  When Mercury becomes solidified  it is eventually transformed into the Shining Star. At that point, even if he is working under the direction of the First Inspector this does not mean he is no longer indebted to the Second Inspector, who will always guide his steps. Mercury’s attraction is a feminine operation and Companionship is Ionic-lunar, as is the Column of Bohas, in contrast to Jakin the red.


The alchemical process according to Basile Valentine
The Great Work
What we refer to by the name Great Work is this process of growth and retrieval of the deep meaning of existence. 
This book additionally desires to enable the actualization, in the present world, of the development stages of this most ancient growth process which encompasses the integrated totality of the human being by leading him to a true “palingenesis”, i.e. “rebirth”.
According to the formula of Basile Valentine, the Great Work consists in visting the inward (or lower) part of the earth, that is, the body and the planetary organism, and in rectifying and rediscovering the philosophical and occult stone 46.

Vitriol – Visita Interiora Terrae

We cannot, however, know this dimension so long as our mind is restlessly agitated and worried, or plunged into indolence. 
The law of inertia is dominating the world. A body which is left to its own self precipitates downwardly (whence the symbol ? to indicate the “waters”), and lies motionless in the posture where its greatest balance is to be found. In other words, from a certain point of view it selects the conditions which are most suitable for its rest. The spirit, which is not spurred on by any need, drifts around as if it were a cork at the mercy of the waves ?, and lets itself be lulled by them without offering any resistance.  
Man’s undeveloped ego is in fact a species of ongoing “trance” in which every thing is mechanical: Certain words automatically create certain emotions, and the negative thoughts cast their reflection over the body. 
This is the perpetual trance which swallows up our life. 
The most common state of the human soul is precisely an indistinct phantasizing, an amorphous mental conceptualization, which is haplessly prey to external stimuli and internal impulses, to an attention which is reduced to mere ongoing distraction, a reasoning which is nothing but a rough sketch that swerves away at every moment, heedless of its departure point or any definite final destination; a reasoning which is, therefore, closer to a simple axiom than to syllogism. It is, in other words, a form of consciousness which is closer to a state of somnambulism and dream than to what is called “clear and distinct consciousness”. Generally speaking, men do not  have an exact realization of what surrounds them; being preys to some vague pleasure or a shapeless boredom, they live in a crepuscular inner atmosphere 47.
Even worse: If we were to observe the most common inner language of the majority of people, the way psychiatrists take note of madmen’s speeches, we would be forced to recognize a form of frequent ideational and emotional paranoia, which is such that surmounting it requires an effort.
In order to melt this condition away, it is therefore necessary, as a first stage, to have a firm resolution (iron, ares, mars Y) to proceed on the path and accordingly develop the ability to develop a “rule” enabling one to keep worries separate from his inner being, whereby he can experientially establish the link with life. 
The first step that is required is the acquisition of some essential elements which are termed “philosophical melters”. We are then going to use such elements inside the vase that indicates man. That vase is made of glass, in order to symbolize the honesty one has to display towards himself, and the fact that nothing can be hidden during this process. 
The intake of these first ingredients might occur through the means of exercises focusing on energy. 
The first intake, in fact, is the intake of a loud and robust tone, both in the physiological and the mental senses of such word. That means we also have to achieve power over the sexual and vertical energy which lies at the base thereof. The relevant symbol is the “potassium nitrate”  E. The idea of the “Nitrum” reminds us of the foundational power which we are going to recover, while the symbol brings the vertical line to our mind. 
The attainment of the verticality E, however, can only occur through the relinquishment of the individualistic ego ? (the horizontality), as the latter perceives the totality F as being subservient to the automatic nature of reflexes.  
The path that needs to be treaded for the sake of breaking the chain of automatic responses is to begin to let chaos choose, i.e. to free automatic responses from their inherently automatic nature (the symbol indicating such a process is k).
This process is also termed “acquisition of the tartarus  ”, that is, the attainment of dissolving power. Such intake can additionally take place by having recourse to techniques of relaxation, alternatively, by letting energy go wherever it likes. This is what used to be done by Franz Anton Mesmer, who was accustomed to see tensions and problems as no more than “blocked energy” which was in need of circulating again. 
What that signifies at a practical level is that we ought to become conscious of this energy, and allow it to circulate and then vanish, precisely the way a wave disappears into the infinity of the sea.
Moreover, the bodily density ? and the ties which bond one’s spiritual side to it must be overcome through a solution or a dissolution. 
In the view of Basilio Valentino, such separation must be earned through the use of the universal solvent or regal water 48, also called vitriol, to wit, through the clear awareness of this direction.   
This preliminary process, besides, makes it easier to  attain the next element: 
The salt of harmony H.
We can then allow ourselves to be guided by this harmony (symbol H) which we intuitionally recognize to be deeply inside ourselves. That element can then finally find an outlet for self- expression.
This corrresponds to an energy-based harmony. The process involving more than one participant can be successfully actualized by paying attention to one’s own energies. 
It is when we reach this stage that we are able to “separate the levels” (symbol +), by ensuring that we no longer confuse our self with our thoughts, our feelings, and our bodily sensations, whereupon we become eligible to attain a new form of ourselves that is less enslaved to mechanical impulses, and which can finally perceive reality in a clearer way. 
This way of operating allows us to create our different form of ourselves J, which is a developed form.
In order to achieve that result, it is important for us to live in the now without falling into distractions 49.
Separation necessitates to be present to our own selves and to the now, and might be symbolized by a hammer stroke which is the equivalent of the resolution to be PRESENT.
If we are present to ourselves, we attain a higher power, the RULE (pure antinomy), which refers to the capacity of moving along a line that lies beyond the “red Adamic soil”, i.e. bodily consciousness. 
The process we have delineated up to now frees the spirit. The spirits thus freed gathers together, and becomes condensed and coagulated.  
It is necessary to repeat this operation a number of times, so as to eventually distil the finer spirit of our own selves. 
Hermetism resorts to the symbolism of the distillation which is aimed at achieving the quintessence (the fifth essence) of a liquid.
The raw material is heated up inside the alembic. The dense part is separated from the subtle one through evaporation. The thin part that has evaporated is then condensed and separately distilled, and, in the last phase of the process, one ends up obtaining spirit (aqua vitae), the life water, the burning water. 
This water is a higher level of consciousness.  
We might define it as the essence” of the person 50. 
Some people live out this state of detached indifference to the blows of life only during moments of meditation, and yet the key lies in successfully maintaining that state through every moment of one’s life. 
Once it is adequately distilled, in fact, this quintessence makes allowance for such perpetuity.
As regards the duration of this process, it is indispensable that all compulsions must have been overcome. 
Compulsions are nothing other than excessive developments of what would otherwise represent faculties of the spirit. 
When that is complied with, this water, which is then conjoined to the ashes (the caput mortuum), that is, to a whole series of elements which we had previously shelved aside, such as phyicality and other elements, depending on the different situations, brings about the «son of art» or even the little king, also termed golden rule, basilisk, as well as  Rebis and Phoenix, all words by which man’s rebirth is pointed at. 
The word rebis is construed by the hermetists as Res bina, i.e. a dual thing: It accordingly denotes the amphibian character of the being born to a new life without losing out his first such life, one who accordingly lives a two-tier life , the ordinary human life and the higher sprititual one. 
This mode of being is reflected in one’s impassibility vis-à-vis cirmustantial situations, in a state of calm, and in a confident attitude.
All these appellations and corresponding drawings are always inspired by the amphibian character of the new life. For example, the purple and aureate Phoenix is the flamingo, an aquatic bird. The Rebis is an important hermetic symbol for the representation of a the fruit of the Great Work; it displays the features of a being equipped with  biceps , who is crowned as a royal personage. In order to confirm its twofold and amphibian nature, it is often depicted as standing over another amphibian animal, such as a drake or a crocodile.  
The Rebis is a symbol which was used in the 1300’s even by the “Faitful of Love”, the group Dante Alighieri, too, belonged to, and one having a deep cognizance of these principles, specifically when it comes to Barberino da Mugello.
The process accordingly accesses an increasingly more total dimension, and allows one even to exit the identification with his egotistic body. In this last-mentioned connection, we reach the state on which we confer the name of “self-not self”, that is, a state where we are further connected to the total and un-manifested dimension of ourselves (we are “spirit” or “consciousness” that observes – is a witness over the body). 
Plurima,  in the view of the hermetists, is then the end-result of the relevant operations: 
1. Wellbeing in all its different connotations, i.e. bodily health and salvation of the soul, or survival and immortality. This principle is also described as the elixir of long life, being the pure or concentrated spirit (Raimondo Lullo or pseudo-Raimondo Lullo)” 51 In fact, ridding oneself of the identification with the body additionally allows one to relinquish those psychosomatic responses which ensure that psychological problems are reflected in the body.
2.  Wisdom and perfection (Drinkable gold in liquid form). Its origination lies in the dissolution in water of the philosopher’s stone 52. Essentially, it signifies man’s gradual improvement. As a final coda to this part of the book, we are going to make mention of an ancient methodology related to this concept in terms of which man, turned into a quintessential being, might unhinge a way that avails his self-development. 
3. Power or wealth (in the sense of wealth of the spirit)
4. The dust of projection; in other words, a substance 
5. The inextinguishible light, which, in our view, clearly refers to “seeing the light” and linking the beginning with the end, i.e.  the said absolute state of transcending time 
The taumaturgic ability (being the capacity to heal others). We can observe in this regard that Franz Anton Mesmer clearly asserts that he distilled his methodology from earlier tautmaturgic techniques of an alchemical type. It follows that such a taumaturgic capability is somehow closely related to what was later given the name of “magneticism”, and which is implicit in man once the stage of perfection  of the Work has been reached, as per the alchemical maxim VITRIOLUM, the meaning of which is  Visita Interiora Terrae Rectificando Invenies Occulta Lapidem Unicam Medicinam (“visit the interior part of the earth, and you will then discover the hidden tombstone, the sole medicine”). For the sake of our experience, such a capacity gets more and more refined as one journeys ahead.
Hermetic view and quantistic view
Hermetism has been interpreted by many people, under the psychoanalytical point of view, or under mechanical points of view (Berthelot was one of the first ones).
Having experienced it, we believe that hermetism must be understood under a quantistical point of view. As a way to achieve a superior understanding of reality, anawakening to what the human being really should be.
We will now give some hints in this direction. We tried to be as concise as possible. The thoughtful reader will have the possibility to expand these concepts. Not a lot of words are necessary, and truly the symbols can do a lot for this understanding, that must start from the hearth, more than from the head:
The formless nothing and the implicate order
The ancients, with the words "en to pan" ( the one the whole)  expressed their understanding of the unity of what exists and can be thought. 
They expressed it with the circle . It is to be noted that the circle expresses both the whole as well as 'nothing'.
As Oswald Wirth says 53: “This substance is still not something, that is, a concrete thing that can be distinguished from other things: it is the Essence of something, prior to any kind of distinctive refinement”
This concept of a formless nothing is exactly the same concept as an underlying unity of reality. It is what quantum scientists refer as they speak of an "implicate order" where everything is connected and there is no time or space in the human sense.
And quantum science confirms what humans all around the world had already expressed through metaphors and ideas.
Quantum science is not enough. we must also practice, as some deep truths cannot be grasped if not by direct experience. We must not only know the physics of water, we must also swim in it. Exactly in this way the philosophers grasped these ideas centuries ago. The essence of hermeticism is understanging these concepts not as academic concepts, but instead as living realities. And the first step is being present to what is around us. If we “sleep”, we stay in our thoughts. We cannot perceive the Universe.
The Ancients said that creation starts from this formlessness. 
A point manifests itself in the circle. The Ancients represented this symbol of creation as a point within the circle . The point is a point of individuation.
Quantum scientists say that awareness is a key point in defining the universe. And awareness is also a key point in every true tradition.
The sun
As these are very high concepts, we can also think by analogy on this whole as being light, that gets progressively defined into colours. And the point inside the circle is a specific symbol of the sun .
This parallelism with light is very useful. Seeing the light has always been a symbol of illumination bringing a person into a higher dimension. 
When we observe light directly, we observe a whole, where all colors and all forms are potentially possible and present at the same time. As this light comes into our room, it will be reflected from objects and arrive to the eye. We will then have the impression of seeing the objects. But we are seeing in reality light, the same light that when looked at in the lamp is in an undefined state. This state gets defined reflecting on objects and so we obtain information.
The dyad observer observed
A fundamental point in quantum science is the fact that observation affects reality. As we measure something, in reality we are modifying its true undefined nature.
So we have a dyad observer-observed, where the observer modifies reality, fixates it, in looking at it. 
When the hermetists speak of the same light inside and outside they express a very similar concept. A light is our being conscious in the world. And the world around us is light that we observe. Observing it in quantum terms we create it  
And the two concepts of Sulphur and Mercury correspond very well to the dyad of observer and observed. 
Mercury is the secret of the art says Wirth. Because in overcoming this dyad, and coming to a place where the observed is no more such, even the universe is no more such, and we penetrate in a different reality. We could call it the world of possibles, as in reality the nature itself of the universe changes. It is no more a delimited cause – effect relationship, but everything get interconnected, and there is pure perception.
But to achieve this quantum jump the observer must be reawakened. At the end there will be no more an observer. The dyad observer-observed will fuse.
Sulphur  (our spirit) is blocked in the prison of salt  (the body). And mercury  is external. 
But sulphur is some way is also encrusted on the salt. It refers to the blocked way (observer’s way) we have to look at the reality.

The first step is to put away the incrustations, so to have a free way to look at the universe.  We must put away what Wirth defines “the stabilised structure of the personality”.
And as we proceed we can understand that the two lights are in reality one light, in the same way as the light of the moon is the same as the light of the sun.
At this point we can bring together these two opposites and achieve a superior state, that we can understand the true quantum nature of the universe.
The three levels of the hermetic initiation
In hermeticism to do it we must first purify the salt. It means we must learn to be present, and not staying trapped in our thoughts. So the salt becomes transparent.
Also we need to develop energy, vitality.  Otherwise we risk to “sleep”.  
This is the goal of the first step of the hermetic initiation.
The second step is marrying these two opposites in everyday’s life. Arriving to a superior level where there is no more an observer – observed diad.
The third level is becoming one with the light (fixation of the sulphur).
Light has always been used from the most ancient times as a tool for getting to higher states of being.
Light reflected in a mirror is used from the most ancient time as a way of performing astral travel, this means light can help bypass the concepts of time and space.
It is interesting that even  various very effective techniques in various traditions are based on light. When using it it is possible to get to a more enhanced state. We create reality refiltering this light. And the results can be very powerful. In just one session we can get profound transformations. 
The elements and the light
The inner transformations of alchemy are also states of perceiving.
In some way we must pass our body through the four elemental phases. 
Doing it we will perceive in different ways and go beyond the limitations created by our three dimensional view.
We can begin to do it in the “night phase”. It means changing perception with only attention to our body. For example.
Being stone. it means stay in the stable state, and staying so much to “decompose it”. We will pass through various stages until the state itself will change its nature.
Being water. staying in the sensitivity of our body. In the consciousness of the surface of our whole body while continuing to relaxing it.
Being air. understanding there is no inside and no outside. In relaxing this is a process that can easily happen afte a while. We can even imagine air exiting from us.
Being fire.  Concentration on the earth while breathing and everything will be burnt  away in the central concentration.
These are changes in perceptions that we have also in our life while we are emotionated for exemple. Repeating this exercise multiple time will wash away the concretions of automatic tensions and reactions.
We must go beyond ordinary consciousness even in our daily life. Staying so much in our senses to be able to begin to feel that space around us is in reality a construct of our senses, and what we call mass or energy is the same.
A comparison to understand the four elements  
The ancients also compared this process of creation to the cooling of water. We could imagine the formless whole, the ocean of the philosophers,  as a cloud.
What we see as “reality” is like a process of getting information from it as a cooling down. (In any case, the cloud is not the ultimate state, but it is already the perceivable state of energy of the universe. There is an even higher state where the cloud becomes so hot that it is plasma).
This is very similar to the concept of the philosophers54 “Nothing stops the waves of the cosmic Ocean, which stays uniformly fluid without anything forming within it.”
This analogy is even reported by modern hypnotherapy researcher Rossi: "a number of centuries ago an anonymous Christian monk wrote a little book called, "The Cloud of Unknowing." To achieve and awareness of God, the monk explained, it was enough to simply sit quietly and imagine and meditate upon a little cloud of unknowing floating just above one's head. As the meditator strived to reach and pierce the mystery of the unknown in the cloud so would an awareness of the mystery of God be realized"
This same concept can have both a therapeutical implication as well as quantistic. Bohm sees an "implicate level" of the universe, that becomes "explicate" through measurement. This active operation is a process that acts like a radio station, that extracts specific information and sounds, measuring a much wider whole of waves that are normally all present at the same time in every point. In the same way, we humans transform a universe of waves in colors, forms, and things. But these parts of information are never the whole. If we measure in a different way we get different results. In therapy we change the way in which people analyse reality. People will get different information from reality at such a point that reality itself will be different. We can even have the case of people stopping to get un-useful information and coming back into a state of "not knowing". And it is curious that in the practice of fascination there is often the impression of a "mist" or "fog" appearing when people enter into a state of fascination. After this "mist" many times they don't even remember what happens.
"It is striking that this metaphor of the cloud is being used by contemporary thinkers to intimate something about the origin and evolution of the natural universe by the process of "symmetry breaking." If you imagine yourself in a uniform cloud of infinite extent you would realize that you are hopelessly lost; everywhere you look there is the same uniform field of mist with no shapes to inform you of place, location or even up and down. Mathematicians and physicists call this a state of symmetry; everything is the same - symmetrical in all directions. In this uiverse of complete symmetry everything is sameness."
But the human spirit, the point inside the circle, searches for forms. He searches for information or as quantum scientists say, to measure the world , thus it modifies it.
Now imagine that the cloud you are lost in is actually hot steam that is gradually cooling. You recall that water boils and turns into steam at one hundred degrees Fahrenheit. So as your cloud cools below one hundred degrees it starts turning into droplets of water and it rains. The uniform symmetry of the cloud has been broken; the cloud of steam has changed phase into a more organized relationship between molecules that we call water. As the water rains down you can now know the difference between up and down. 
The Ancients analogically expressed this idea of cooling down with the symbol of water represented with an arrow pointing down .
The water is the reality of the river of manifestation. 
Lowering the temperature creates information. Or in quantistically terms “determines” reality. 
Lowering the temperature has (1) broken the symmetry of the cloud leading to the (2) organization of water droplets so you now have (3) information at about the direction of up and down. As the temperature lowers further to zero degrees there is another 'symmetry breaking' leading to another , the phase transition of water as it is further organized through crystallization , turning into solid ice. 
This is the reality that has blocked itself in just one possibility. It is the “iced” reality in which human beings live.
Skating about on the solid ice you now have a vast amount more information, since you now have the four directions - north, south, east and west. Once again symmetry breaking is accompanied by an increase in organization and information. In the same way, as we measure the universe, we "cool it down" from its original undefined state."
The ancients compared this final state of cooling down as 'Earth' , where this process has its final end, and expressed it with an arrow pointing down , blocked in its state.
Un-freezing the universe of possibles
Our mind makes order of the universe creating a tangible universe. Doing this we "freeze" a reality and many times we forget that we ourselves "froze" it. So the key is to "remember of ourselves".
The key for getting back to know the whole is in the awareness of ourselves. 
We must wake up our internal fire . And the sulphur  is the symbol of the fire encrusted in the earth.
Beginning to notice your kinaesthetic part, most of the time forgotten. 
Opening the gaze. These are the first steps in developing presence. Proceeding in this path can bring us both into creating in the universe as well as well in touching higher dimensions. And the human being is often represented with a cross where the frozen horizontal physical dimension is connected with the vertical line of awareness . 
Humans then are part of earth, Hermetists compared them to stones, that once cleaned, balanced and heated up can return to the knowledge of the whole.
The basic concept here is information. The more we know, the more we define the system. This is a quantistic concept. We must allow a part of our mind to stay in the undetermined, in the chaos, becoming able to know the "Cloud of unknowing".
"Crude as our metaphor may be it helps us understand a point of view where matter, energy and information are all stages in the evolution of organization in the universe. Although we usually think of information as an aspect of mind and consciousness, the new informational view of physics recognizes information as an expression of the organization of energy and matter in the natural evolution of the universe. Humans are expressions of the natural evolution of the organization of matter, energy and information; they did not invent information any more than they invented matter. If we think of humans as "advanced informational systems," Stonier (1990) describes their evolution from the origin of the universe in the big bang as follows."
So we can shift from matter and energy to the idea of information as the essence of the universe, nature and the evolution of being and consciousness.
And the effectivity of occult medicine can be thought as a change in the way this information is filtered, giving then access to higher orders of reality. 
The Gaze as a metaphos to understand these concepts.
Hermetists used a lot mirrors for achieving transformation
How does the gaze enter in this process?
The process described has a physical component. we will now observe the visual one.
Through thousands of experiences we have seen that there is a direct correspondence between what is written above and some physical actions.
As we observe objects we search for information, we measure them. Our eyes, through the operations of convergence and accomodation put us in a 'point of view'.
More, we detach from the background some elements that we define. 
If emotions are linked to what we observe, we feel it as a "reality". 
We are in some way cooling down both our observation and our body, as emotions are felt inside the body.
And often massage therapists work to make the muscles loose. with the gaze we can do this even faster.
If we allow the gaze to open, we begin to recover the whole.
If we defocalize a little, we can enter into an even more undefined state.
This is something a person can do by himself in front of a mirror.
It is to notice that, by looking at ourselves in a mirror, we will have the impression of a "mist" as our vision will become more and more blurred. This is a physical effect, that with appropriate techniques can bring us to an even deeper realm of mind.
In our body at the same time we will have the impression of a more watery or even airy dimension as sensations will change.
Forms will change and other impressions will arrive.
If our eyes will go to the third eye ( in individual practice), or opening up, they will go into what is called the 'dark focus' (in fascination - a specific point in space also called the resting point of accomodation) we even exit the three-dimensionality and we begin to change the dimension of perception. So in eastern traditions as well in some secret western traditions the looking at the third eye has always had an important meaning.
Notice as even the technique cited before of looking at the "cloud of unknowing" above your head will bring your eyes up in this physiological position.
Obviously for the process to be complete it is fundamental that we work also on the kynaesthetic field. We will even notice as sensation comes first in this process.
Even to our bodily perception we must bring our awareness. When we move we must move with the whole body. we must open the field and be aware of ourselves completely.
So magnetism, as a way for creating kynaesthetic sensations and fascination can go together to help in human transformation.
So, starting from very simple experiences, we can in some way grasp some deeper meanings that can transform our view of life and give to us a more complete way of being.


An ancient Italian table with the alchemical elements and their meaning

From Nicasius Le Febure, A Compleat Body of Chymistry, Londra 1664










