A ce stade on commence à ressentir une sensation de calme et une force intérieure (recentrage, se tenir dans l’Axe). C’est une préparation, rien n’a encore été transformé, c’est la séparation du corps de terre et du corps de l’eau (le corps de l’émotion, mais aussi des angoisses et des traumatismes) qui permet au corps de terre de refleurir. Pour isoler le corps fluidique, il faut rendre inerte la sensibilité du corps animal (corps de terre). Pour cela il ne faut pas clignoter. Pour augmenter l’effet on peut fixer l’oeil gauche (oeil lunaire) et faire des circulations au niveau du nombril. PHASE 1 : du corps de terre à la manifestation du corps d’eau. 2ème étape : On continue à se regarder. Cette étape consiste à rendre l’état constant (fixation). C’est la première extraction du Mercure (Hermes) de la minière (la grotte, l’ensemble de notre être) (la démarche à ce stade est thérapeutique - on peut penser qu’on laisse aller les “esprits” dans le miroir pendant qu’on ce centre sur son “soufre”). PHASE 2 : fixation du corps d’eau. 3ème étape : On commence à avertir une sensation différente.On se permet de dévélopper sa présence. On doit etre comme une eau claire ou l’on voit les vagues d’émotion comme quelque chose qui n’est pas soi, qui n’est pas à soi, et cela aboutit à la découverte d’un état de conscience objectif par rapport au colori chosi. PHASE 3 : dévéloppement du soufre. Perception du corps d’air 4ème étape : Libération du pouvoir central et rencontre avec le serpent. On peut à ce point opere de deux façons: 1 – fermer les yeux dans un moment ou on est au maximum de centrage sur son corps (création du sel rectifié) 2 – continuer l’observation avec décision (cette façon de faire est plus adapté si on est parti avec le regard au centre) L’exercice du miroir magique permet de faire alors l’expérience de la lumière astral (perception du corps de feu). A ce stade, toute la difficulté consiste à fixer cet état qui devient ensuite comme un feu sous la cendre et que à chaque miroir se fixe majeurement. PHASE 4 : A ce moment là, on a réussi à libérer son soufre. On peut augmenter la conscience jusqu’à joindre le corps de feu et d’air avec le corps de l’eau. (c’est la conjonction de la Lune et du Soleil, ou la conjonction du Soufre et du Mercure ou Caducées d’Hermes). Autres éléments de base fondamentaux Soit dans les exercises du miroir, soit dans la vie, le candidat doit apprendre à rester toujours “present”. Pour rejoindre ce résultat est important dés le début que le candidat s’efforce de maintenir la présence à son corps et à ses sensations. Le but est de développer un principe central de présence. Petit à petit cette pratique vous conduira à avoir une sensation particuliére, comme d’étre “témoins de vous memes”. Initiatory Path with Mirrors The fundamental exercises include the practice of viewing in a mirror. The use of this tool has both efficacity to increase the power of the eye as well this can also develop "astral vision" (in the Paracelsian sense) more effectively than any other tool. Most of the ancient fascinators practised this type of perception. A similar method is still practiced in the East, and this practice is called "Melong" and can also be practised on sheets of reflective metal. This practice is also conducted from antiquity in the Western countries. The mirror, in the Tibetan tradition is a polyvalent symbol, and also means clarity in the full sense of "purity primordial "(Tibetan ka dag) flow of consciousness. some of the traditions that rely on the use of a container full of water or jugs aim to develop of this ability. In the Western tradition I got in touch with one of my students, the Count Jean Pierre de Giudicelli, who was a prominent representative of a tradition of Egyptian origin. This tradition is linked to the presence to himself. I had a very long talk with him and I discussed the phenomenon. In the same tradition was the famous Cagliostro, that used a jug of clear water posted on a piece of furniture, and before it a child, on whose head the operator placed one hand and told him the questions to ask, to which replies were given in allegorical pictures. This type of vision, practiced with mirrors, jugs or other tools is also fundamental basis for the work of the Fascinators as it develops a particular energetic sensibility that allows the fascinator to be infallible, because he can operate not only in physical dimension, but also in an energetic dimension not yet fully elucidated by modern science, but no less real in its effects. Here are some notes from the Italian tradition. This tradition is from an ancient origin. In ancient Egypt and Greece, starting around the seventh century BCE, the person initiated of the "mystery" cults, were conducted through a serie of passages, one of which was a symbolic death. This symbolic death was the "death of the self". It opened the mind of the practitioner to a wider dimension. In working with the mirror this is accomplished by entering deep in the dream and after transcending our physical and astral/emotional state by opening up to an higher dimension where will be at a superior level, where we will see the physical stage and the imagining stage as something "below" us. OPUS 1 – Climbing The four Stages Let's see now the different steps of an interesting work with mirrors that will make you more and more aware of different level of consciousness. First step is the physical. We will look at a mirror and we will have various distortions. Second step is called "fluidic". Our mind will begin to project in this space, and get glimpses of an higher level of reality Third step is "etheric". We will go beyond the dream. We will be conscious in two worlds at the same time. We will understand there is an ourself that looks and it is mirrored, but there is also a further higher self beyond the former two. Fourth and last step is the most high level of cosmic consciousness. Let's begin now in finding a quiet room, and look at yourself without blinking. "Staring at the image in the glass, after a short time you will see the contours of the face, and the contours of the objects in room. They will almost vanish in a milky cloud that will form quickly. During the first few times, until the eye will be capable of withstanding with absolute certainty the burning and the excitation it is necessary, with a in fact mild effort of will, to return to the initial vision, absolutely clear. You can then indulge in this feeling gradually increasing the duration and intensity. One thing is absolutely essential for one who wants to initiate this practice: never lose consciousness,always keeping an unaltered state, perfect clarity, avoiding to fall into hypnotic sleep. Breathing should be complete and long as much is possible but without doing effort. Apart from the exercise with the mirror there is also another exercise that is very useful to be done apart from a few hours: standing, in a room perfectly dark, with the eyes closed, concentrate your mind trying to recall the experience above and trying to recreate the various psychophysiological reactions; whilst keeping the eyes open one may see some forms appear, sometimes brighter, and this appearing will be more precise as the ability develops. Later it will be also possible to develop the vision with closed eyes. FIRST PHYSICAL PHENOMENA - FIRST STAGE (? Earthly phenomena) The phenomena that you may begin to notice in practice with the mirrors are various. Stare at yourself on the third eye, where the nose touch the forehead, or, and some of the phenomena will appear faster, in the left eye. At the begin, a fog will appear around the image. The fog on the image reflected in the mirror slowly will become more dense after total and then goes darkening. After it will change its quality again taking a milky colour - at the beginning it will be just like a sensation - but after you will hawe a strange complete darkness where you will anyway see the boundaries of physical objects, surrounded by a strange light that could cover all ranges of the iris, from red to violet, with shades and tints unimaginable. Do not believe that the above experiences could be experienced with the same rapidity with which you read ... You will easily observe something as the first auras (even something as human radiation could be visible), magnetic and mental, the latter with a particular intensity, and their growth and acting, that could be increased practicing particular exercises. VISIONS IN THE FLUIDIC LEVEL - SECOND STAGE (? ?“The waters”) At this point, visions could be possible. The operator can open himself to this new dimension and this requires a slightly controlled passive state open to perception. Communication and vision of far people can be obtained at this point. Focusing intensely the thoughts on the image of a person will soon draw in the outlines of it in the mirror, until, becoming more precise, it will show up in the way in which our thought create it, or even as it is in the moment of the experiment (that in this case we could call of far sight). By the same process it is easy to recall past events, as well as having a clear vision of the future. It is important to note that the figures mentioned do not speak, which is very obvious, but the operator has clear conscience, and it is as he could feel the vibrations of the words inside. You can easily see your body or the body of imagined people almost like a mass of a dark gray, more intense here and there, surrounded entirely by a band of slightly brighter light. The vision of the more or less rapid varying degrees of lights and colours ends with the perception of a complete darkness where the conscience of the operator seems. to dissolve. DREAMS If the individual is capable to persist, and not to retract, and even intensify the strength of the experiment, then, gradually, in absolute darkness one may be able to see of forming a small slight bright center. This will gradually shine until it will take over the dark. So a wonderful new world will open up to the human perception that if it can be satiated by many splendours and magnificent things, must also stay firm, impassible before the monstruosities and horrors without a name that you could see. CONTINUING THE PATH But the trials and dangers have not stopped, the goal is still far away and the path becomes increasingly difficult. Hallucinations of many types could be seen and we transcend near a dream world, but we must absolutely not fall inside it. Other observations of a more profound and interior level need to be done, especially noting a vague feeling of vertigo already slightly experienced in earlier stages. The operator must in the first steps fight it and dominate it, then at a succesive step a change of perception will be necessary, and the only possibility is to let it be there to persist and being beyond it. Feeling it in a slight and barely noticeable way. This requires that the will operates in a very particular way, maintaining a sense of power and passivity, a sense of firm and tenacious immobility. After, in this superior state the sensation of vertigo could even be voluntarily increased in intensity and be brought to a superior level, near to the loss of consciousness. THIRD STAGE - LUCID DREAMING IN WAKING STATE (??) If you are able to be present you will be able to reach a further step. In this step you will become aware at the same time of two realities and you will be beyond the normal ego, above the flow of dreaming thoughts that are created by your abitual being. Those who are able to overcome the point in which they risked to succomb to the vertigo and be carried over by the flow of dreams, they will be like walking above the waters. In fact, passing beyond the threeshold of this "death" they may, after a barrage of trials, get even used to the vertigo itself and not suffer it, rather almost no notice at all, and therefore lead with perfect lucidity the gap between the two modes of being, leaving the physical body in a state of apparent death to live another life, and then regain consciously the primitive state. You will stay on two worlds at the same time. Note, the same results can be reached by other means, including where, for example, the rotation of the head at an angle, the breathing performed with particular rhythm, they can also be used certain reactions of sexual union, feelings of love, etc.. the latter methods are not advisable to apply for the rapid dangerous violence, not allowing a gradual development of control (in alchemy they are called "corrosive waters") In all these ways, however, you must be able to direct the force that is impression for your purpose. Strange phenomena are occurring at perception in the course of these experiments. (Note : in some experiments it is better to sit down while looking at the mirror, in case you loose totally consciousness) Vertigo - which often results in panic in a weak-willed person, and this panic can be an obstacle for further refinement, easily can instead in an evolved person be changed in a strange and almost funny curiosity when the consciousness, detached from the body, almost suspended in mid-air of the room, has the perception safe and controllable of the new situation in which he is, knows that sees, even feeling it has no eyes, and see a space surrounding that, wonder of wonders, can increase or diminish by will. There is no more a fixed idea of space. The operator can also contemplate the body, lying inert, and say: - I am the one here, but I'm not, I am an I am not at the same time, or I'm not at all? I am here; that which would be me, is there, but that is not I who I'm here, but I know also that I'm not here - and so on reasoning or unreasoning, feeling at once one, two, three, because at some point, one realizes that even duality is overcome, and is aware of a quid contemplating himself, outside himself without nor confused with the body, neither ... with himself. ... It is better to say with Dante, "the high fantasy here will fail "since it is absolutely impossible, at a common level, in an ordinary state, to only conceive certain states of consciousness anyway certainly true in their apparent absurdity; and impossible it is also with the small power of words to give perfectly the fullness of such perceptions, in which mathematics and logic, the two columns that support the human building, become simple abstractions. " FOURTH STAGE - Beyond the abyss "The vague intuition of this mystery will eventually go beyond first attitude of bewilderment, and once again consciousness will find itself on the verge of a new abyss the only abyss, perhaps, that in its infinite extension presents thousands of different aspects, frighteningly deep from whichever side you try to cross it.