In this way, we avoid tensions that could block the energy. Exercise 26: head They also rotate their heads from right to left. It is indeed up to the neck, which often create tension which can block the energy. Even more effective is the rotation is made before bringing back the head. Exercise: 27. Resume exercises of presence indicated previously In our book, Mesmerismus and "Trance" there are many exercises are useful for this purpose. At this point, we are ready for the "exercises for hemispheres" that are symbolically linked to polarities in humans. Probably a school of this type, connected with the development of the power of gaze, is probably present in Italy even since pre-Roman eras, which would explain how there are still many people who know and practice this technique. The Etruscans had in fact represented the eye on many everyday objects. Moreover, their winged deity in the symbology below implies the same concepts of the exercise that we will be presenting shortly. In it, we may see how the power of breathing (represented by the wing, which is the element of air) relates to the eye. At the same time we see clearly how this is a force, represented by the sword. The two aquatic tails show clearly the dual aspect behind this energy. Since tails belong in their form, to the aqueous element, symbol in its entirety (though we do not have evidence of the matter) may easily represent the exercise that follows: from the meeting of two different aqueous energies and the energy of breathing you extract the power (represented by the sword). To do this you must work at both physical and energetic level. Dominate polarities with the hot water/cold water exercise To develop the basic energy we must therefore be able to overcome polarities. Polarities are also expressions of a dualistic vision of the world, a product of our mind and our ego that has learned to interpret the sensory data according to pre-established patterns. How many people complain constantly! Being influenced by world distinctions, beautiful/ugly, pleasant/unpleasant etc… this means virtually to live in a reality built from the outside and based on the concepts. The magnetic man builds instead his world and his reality. Moreover, the first point where we must surpass us is in ourselves. We must be able to build our world and live our reality. A way to access each symbol is represented by the sensorial experience. A major exercise called "hot water and cold water". It consists in Dennis, Etruria, vol. ii. p. 160 This exercise is among the first, if not the first in the tradition of Virgilio t. modify perceptions, to reverse the physical polarity of perception of the water element. This exercise works physiologically to hemispheric level, since each hand is tied to a different hemisphere. When we operate at the same time on two hands then we arrive at a new and higher sense of unity. Exercise 28: Hot water and cold water. 1) Put a basin with cold water to the right 2) Put a basin with hot water to the left 3) Put a hand in the basin of cold water and a hand in warm water basin and at the same time try to reverse the perceptions. Some will totally. Others will only partly. Anyway, make the maximum effort and act without using the imagination (so you do not have e.g. to imagine ice) but the willpower only. Note, it could seem it was you heating the water. Then you will see that you actually have achieved control over your perceptions. Exercise 29: With breathing Perform the same exercise again, but holding breath The exercise has a strong symbolic value. The first symbol of the exercise: the non conditioning With this exercise our being is no more influenced from temperatures of "waters" (symbolized by an arrow that goes down ? ). The second symbol of the exercise: the upper dimension With this exercise, you log on to an aerial dimension that is no longer tied to "land" (symbol ? ). The tradition symbolized this dimension by an early development of mercury (symbol r). Namely we are at a point where the polarities meet and can be controlled. Process The first phase of the awakening of the serpent power (namely basic energy, symbolized by the symbol of Aries A, serpentine energy linked to the deeper layers of our mind). It occurs only when "our Center will know how to move into the fluidic body and will be detached from primary senses and isolated, as a result, from the physical world". Indeed, to perform the exercise, you shall develop a new status in yourself, detached from physical senses. Then the fire of consciousness D can afford to project the energy. This projection may be accompanied by a specific sound (mantra). You are awakening magnetism. This will be fixed later by subsequent repetitions of the exercise and its evocation through memory, even without water. Physically and symbolically. The use of the symbol in our tradition coincides with a reality. The second is the projection of the force in itself. Abraxa – Ur and Krur Breathing to dominate the polarities Our breathing, without we notice it, passes alternately from one nostril to the other. The researcher Ernest Rossi observed that this alternation of rhythms follows specific rhythms and matches the different activation of the two cerebral hemispheres. Symbolically, the right nostril is linked to activity, while the left to passivity. A balancing exercise is alternating breathing in, namely the inhale with one nostril and exhale with the other. 81: breathing exercise. 1) Inhale right while holding (closing) the left nostril and fill the lungs 1) Exhale left holding (closing) the right nostril. 2) Re-inhale to the left keeping closed the right nostril 3) Exhale right while closing the left nostril 4) Keep on doing it You can add a particular respiratory rhythm in the exercise above, or run it just as well. Presence to head sides with the two seconds’ rhythm Be aware of the right side of the head, and then of the left one. Continue alternating for a short time. Follow with presence at the front of the head and the back of the head. Continue with the top of the head and the bottom. As you develop a stronger Central, you will feel increasingly centered on you. The rate shall be the following: a second to right and a second to left, repeating for some times, then a second ahead and a second back, repeating for several times too, and similarly for top and bottom. This rhythm according to the researches of Prof. Lefebure improves brain and opens the way to the psychic faculties. In particular the exercise above will enable you to rekindle the "central fire" whenever is about to become extinct. Symbolism of Caduceus repeats what was said earlier about the reported Etruscan deity. The two snakes symbolize the side energies, and the Central stick corresponds to the Central energy. Ernest Rossi, "The mind-body Biology" Respirazione per dominare le polarità La nostra respirazione, senza che noi ce ne accorgiamo, passa alternativamente da una narice all'altra. Il ricercatore Ernest Rossi[1] ha osservato come questo alternarsi segua dei ritmi specifici e corrisponda al differente attivarsi dei due emisferi cerebrali. Simbolicamente, la narice destra è legata all'attività, mentre la sinistra alla passività. Un esercizio equilibrante consiste allora nella respirazione alternata, vale a dire nell'inspirare con una narice ed espirare con l'altra. Esercizio 81: respirazione alternata. 1) Inspirate a destra trattenendo (chiudendo) la narice sinistra e riempite totalmente i polmoni 1) Espirate a sinistra trattenendo (chiudendo) la narice destra. 2) Reinspirate a sinistra tenendo sempre chiusa la narice destra 3) Espirate a destra chiudendo la narice sinistra 4) Continuate cosi’ Potete aggiungere un ritmo respiratorio particolare all’esercizio sopra indicato o eseguirlo semplicemente cosi’. Presenza ai lati della testa con il ritmo dei due secondi Siate coscienti della parte destra della testa, e poi della parte sinistra. Continuate alternando per un poco di tempo. Seguite con presenza alla parte di fronte della testa ed al retro della testa. Continuate con la parte alta della testa e la parte bassa della testa. Man mano svilupperete uno stato centrale sempre più forte, vi sentirete sempre più centrati in voi. Il ritmo deve essere il seguente: un secondo a destra ed un secondo a sinistra, ripetendo per qualche volta, poi un secondo avanti ed un secondo indietro, ripetendo anche qui varie volte, ed analogamente per alto e basso. Questo ritmo secondo le ricerche del Prof. Lefebure migliora il funzionamento cerebrale e apre la strada alle facoltà psichiche. In particolare l’esercizio sopra indicato potrà permettervi di ravvivare il “fuoco centrale” ogni qualvolta stia per estinguersi. [1] Ernest Rossi “La biologia mente-corpo” A questo punto siamo pronti per gli “esercizi per gli emisferi” che sono anche simbolicamente legati alle polarità nell’uomo. Probabilmente una scuola di questo tipo legata allo sviluppo della potenza dello sguardo è probabilmente presente in Italia addirittura da epoche pre-romane, cosa che spiegherebbe come ancora adesso si trovino sulla penisola molte persone che conoscano e praticano questa tecnica. Gli etruschi amavano infatti rappresentare l’occhio su molti oggetti di uso comune. E la loro divinità alata[1] riportata nella simbologia qui sotto implica gli stessi concetti dell’esercizio che presenteremo fra poco. In essa appare come la forza della respirazione (rappresentata dall’ala, cioè l’elemento aria) sia legata all’all’occhio. Al contempo vediamo chiaramente come questo sia una forza rappresentata dalla spada. Le due code acquatiche mostrano chiaramente l’aspetto duplice alla base di questa energia. Poiché le code appartengono nella loro forma all’elemento acqueo, il simbolo nella sua interezza, (anche se non abbiamo prove certe al riguardo) potrebbe rappresentare facilmente l’esercizio che segue: dalla riunione di due energie acquee differenti e dall’energia della respirazione si estrae la potenza (rappresentata dalla spada). Per far ciò è necessario un lavoro sia a livello fisico che a livello energetico. Dominare le polarità con l’esercizio acqua calda / acqua fredda Per sviluppare l’energia di base dobbiamo quindi essere in grado di superare le polarità. Sono anche polarità le espressioni della visione dualistica del mondo, un prodotto della nostra mente e soprattutto del nostro ego che ha imparato ad interpretare i dati sensori secondo modelli precostituiti. Quanta gente si lamenta continuamente! Farci influenzare dalle distinzioni del mondo, bello/brutto, piacevole/spiacevole ecc… significa in pratica vivere in una realtà costruita dall’esterno e basata sui concetti. L’uomo magnetico costruisce invece lui il suo mondo e la sua realtà. E il primo punto dove dobbiamo superarci è in noi stessi.