Exercise 15. Steps. Walk regularly for five steps, providing you have in your brain the feel that you move forward the right foot, then the left. Having managed this exercise, make an effort to have (always in the brain) the exact sensation of entire leg, going forward, and later even the feeling of the whole body that moves. Exercise 16. Touch. Take any object: e.g. a pencil, a paper holder, a watch. The exercise consists in determining mentally the exact sensation the object gives to your touch: its shape, the feeling of weight or heat, du-safety, etc. To simplify the exercise begin to determine one at a time the feelings of the various qualities of the examined object; then you can reach (but only hardly, and after a long workout) the contemporary and comprehensive determination of all the sensations of touch. Exercise 5. The view. 1. Open and close rapidly, the buffet of your dining room and describe the number and quality of the objects that you have seen. 2. Pass quickly in front of a storefront and make inventory as above. Exercise 18. The hearing. Note: this exercise is not only an excellent training for concentration, but is also an excellent gym of the mind. Bring your attention exclusively on a chosen among many noises affecting your ear: e.g. the noise of the tram passing, the tick of a clock, etc. You have to concentrate to the point of not having in your mind anything else but the sensation of this noise: do not think to the tram or the clock, but the noise they make. The described exercises you must perform in the solitude of your room at the beginning. Then the student has to begin accustomed to do them in the midst of the people, amid the noise. In doing so he will increase the certainty of being able to concentrate where he wants and when he wants. Exercise 19 -Sleep and wake up. Remember a picture and then return to the present moment. Understand where the image and details is. In fact, in everyday life, when you lose the presence and retake it, it is normally for an image or a sound. With this exercise, virtually “we change world" Exercise 20 – the needle Take an ordinary pin, with black pinhead and let it run through the center of the page of a book. You can easily use any page of this book, but it will be better to use a book that you are not familiar with and even better if you never read it. Put the book away as usual to read extensively and focus at the pinhead. These done, try to see as many words as you can, close to pinhead, without moving even for an instant your eyes from the point above mentioned. At this moment, you will feel an almost irresistible desire to direct your gaze on the words themselves, but do not support it. Imprint in your mind the words as they appear and when you have sent to memory every word possible within the radius of your vision without moving the gaze, close your eyes quickly and write on a piece of paper the words memorized. Later you can check this list confronting it with the words on the page where the needle was plunged and if you do not match will be a sign that you were not be following exactly the prescriptive instructions and it would be good to repeat the exercise. In this case, it will be advisable to choose a different page. Exercise 21 – count without counting Watch a series of slats or vertical elements and without counting how many there are. This exercise does not interest as memory. As Virgil says: "when I see everything as a unity, I have more power". Therefore, virtually we need to count objects without counting. This technique leads our minds to work better, eliminates mental difference between "background" and "foreground" expressed in Gestalt terms, namely between part and whole. Further comments on the last two exercises Virtually the last two exercises above mentioned will help us to connect the "look" with the "watch". This is a typical attribute of a person who is present. Normally this man combines two elements: the watching, which is the act of observing giving attention, and the seeing, which is the act of global perception. The two moments can also be defined as the first and second attention. First attention: it stands on the particular, on the item. Second attention: it defines the so-called global attention that can reach up to the so-called Ganzfeld (in German, unique field) where there are no more contours. Watching attention focuses on the fovea and is linked to the process of thought and attention to closer elements. Seeing attention is then more global and connected to emotions. A complete and powerful vision combines the Jean Pierre de Giudicelli has taught us this exercise ability to see with that of watching because doing so also connects different brain areas. Exit peripherals Trances We often move eyes in various positions and without realizing it we enter into a trance. The phenomenon has been observed in PNL. The following exercise is useful to minimize this type of "trance." Infinity 1 Here is an exercise that seems easy, but it is very difficult to perform correctly. It is about tracking mentally without discontinuity and for a time growing the mathematical sign for infinity, similar to an 8 lying down. You can do it in the country or in open spaces. Imagine, therefore, seeing this immensely big sign standing out in brightness. You must, starting from any point, follow the continuous curve, without ever removing the eyes of the mind. This simple exercise helps the inter-hemispheric coordination as well as it makes it more difficult to lose your presence at certain times. Infinity 2 Observed a point in front of you and then executed movements as a lying eight (?) with the head, so that your pupils are obliged to perform this movement while always looking the point. Try to be always attentive to the point. This exercise develops attention a lot. Restore "sub-sensorialties" We call "sub-sensorialty" a series of outermost sensorial responses that normally we do not realize, and happen below the level of our consciousness (subliminal). To be increasingly present they must be reintegrated. Integrate sub-sensorialties is the key to increase oneself sensitivity. We have: At physical level sensations of magnetism At visual level the so-called "auras" At auditory level "sub sounds" The following exercises can help integrate these sub-sensorialties BODY Magnetic sensations Move a finger towards the palm of your hand. Even without touching, the palm will feel a tingling sensation; move away the finger, and notice how there may be a remaining feeling. After this preliminary exercise, work out every day to bring energy to your "hara" (your navel) through the “magnetic steps”. VIEW The Aura Exercise 22 –focus on the mirror In front of a mirror performs the following steps: With an uninterrupted light not too strong, breathe slowly and look at your face in a mirror. It is ideal to do this when you are a little tired, but not too much. Keep yourself in a relaxed status and focus on the center point, an eye or your forehead. In a short time, you will feel heat in the back of the neck. At this point, continue to focus. This heat is your energy. Now you can imagine to be opening a door. At this point, you see a white light around you and watch the image change Note – eliminate the eventual headache The previous exercise could leave a slight feeling of a headache. You can easily eliminate headaches resulting from this exercise by placing one hand on the heart and the other on the forehead. Then remove your hand from the forehead and put it on the back of the neck, this eliminates the sensation Exercise 23 -aura You can use the same technique to see what it is called "aura". Relax and inwardly head towards seeing the aura of the subject. Breathe in slowly. Look through or around the subject. When you defocus an outline light appears. HEARING The inner sound Cover your ears. You will feel like a mumble. It is blood passing close to your auditory cells. Keep attention to this noise. Try to listen in a quiet environment even without covering your ears and remaining present. Then try to expand your perception until you can capture it as often as possible. Exercises for hemispheres and the awakening of the central fire The purpose of exercises that follow is the awakening of your central fire. When to perform them? They have to be performed until this new status will be fixed in you. After, you may continue them at will, as you will notice they develop your ultimate energy and are always of benefit. Basic Concepts To develop fascination is also essential to handle the energies of the spinal column, the central canal of the Caduceus Western Hermetic, the Indians’ Kundalini. Indeed, in the spine, they meet symbolically three ducts called Sympathetic, Vagus and Central corresponding to those Yogi calls Ida, Pingala and Sushunna. Ida and Pingala are the left and right side respectively. When their energies meet then you can develop the core energy. Under other latitudes, the concept expresses in all systems, for example in the cabal, we have a central pillar and two side pillars. If we look at this from a neurological point of view, we may think that the liberation of the core energy is tied to a particular interaction between the two halves of the body, each corresponding to a cerebral hemisphere. The man is in fact, except for some organs, completely symmetrical, and the most recent neurological studies coincide in fact to observe that in humans there are two hemispheres each one with its own specialization.