When it came to the second customer, he did not even utter a single word to him. He fixed him closely, and this other customer’s look turned pallid and diaphanous as if it was made of wax. At that point, Virgilio carried out a facetious probative exercise: Faced with the question on what his name was, such customer answered by mentioning a woman’s name which had not even been verbally suggested (to him by Virgilio), only through the power of thought. Virgilio thereupon woke him up. Moved by his curiosity, Max took to Virgilio a number of his friends, and witnessed similar events on several other occasions. Even I succeeded in experiencing on my own skin the power of this seemingly quiet person who, besides the ability I have just described, had also developed a special sensitivity to energies, to such an extent that he was a capable medical diviner equipped with the talent to retrieve an object concealed inside a room. Where does all of this originate? Having intuitively realized that recourse to such technique might have stretched even beyond what we had been witnesses to, and that this power might be used for the additional purpose of making people feel better, we resolved on becomingVirgilio’s students and intimate associates, to whom he could have confided his secrets. We then realized that, in order to attain such power, what is needed is a disciplined work upon one’s own self, which is also grounded on a series of techniques and exercises encompassing self-control as well as self-development and self-improvement. Virgilio is not, however, the only exponent of such school which we owe our knowledge of the subject to. A contribution to the completion of this work was also made by the late Prof. Erminio from Pisa 3. He used to refer to fascination by the term of “instantaneous hypnosis”. In spite of the fact that both Virgilio T. and Erminio from Pisa were consummate masters in this art, the former, albeit capable of producing rapid results, operates only by leaving a superficial and short-term imprint, at a time that the work carried out by the latter pushes this technique onto a different level, one that has a deep effect and succeeds in healing plentiful pathologies on an enduring basis. In so doing, it traces itself back to a long tradition of therapeutic fascination. After all, Virgilio, fully aware as he was of his limits, made use of his brand of hypnosis, never mind how spectacular, only as a game or for theatrical effect, whereas Prof. Erminio from Pisa was accustomed to assiduously cure dozens of people on a weekly basis, within his study, as part of his regular professional activity. Most of these persons would get cured in a single session lasting ten seconds or so. Even those who were most amenable to recurrent relapses, needed no more than 2 to 3 sessions before the beneficial effects of fascination accomplished through the look embedded themselves firmly in their organisms. Prof. Erminio was a person marked by a forceful personality. In his work methodology, as was the case with the ancient people, he always strove to be in a state of balance with the universal harmony, which he used to discern as a result of his astrological studies. It is thus from him that we have learnt how to employ this art for healing purposes. This is a technique that we are going to lay out in the second part of the book. Prof. Erminio, too, had been directly introduced to this discipline by an existing master: Prof. Caravelli. The latter was a masterful expert in the so-called art of “bi-location”, so much so that he could be simultaneously perceived in two different places. That is how we have made our acquaintance with this technique, which is as ancient as it is beneficial. These keys had remained hidden up to now. Indeed, although, since the days of the most remote past, testimonies had been adduced of people who were able to exercise a powerful influence with the look, the true method of bringing that about had in fact always been kept secret, or at least transmitted only on condition of maintaining a high degree of confidentiality. Even a very committed devotee of this type of subjects such as William Atkinson, who is one of the few people to have consecrated an entire book to the subject, one that bears the title of “Mental Fascination” 4, deals with it from the outside, in the process mentioning that he had interviewed some people, while clarifying the fact that had not been personally initiated to the technique. Likewise, Seligmann, a German ophthalmologist who authoured in this regard a monumental work comprising more than 2500 literary sources he had quoted therein, had never been let in the art from inside. Accordingly, as with many authors in the field, he offers us a puzzle without however being able to provide us with a true solution to it. It does not end here, however. Though we have been introduced to the technique, we can personally attest to the fact that there are still many obscure points in need of clarification, as regards the degree of potency of this hidden and extraordinary power. Fields of utilization of fascination “Fascination is actualized by a lucid and subtle virtue which the heat of the heart gives birth to as one equipped with a purer blood. This heat is emanated in the form of rays which, emitted by open eyes fixing their gaze with strong imaginative power, ultimately produce a wound in the object of their look, touch the heart, and succeed in afflicting the other person’s heart and spirit, either with love or hatred, with envy, melancholia, or some other kindred emotional force. Feeling the attraction of love is a phenomenon which takes place when two people frequently eye one another through a direct, intense look. In that case, visual rays, mutually radiating, meet one another, and light is wedded to light. It is at that point that spirits are conjoined together, and that the superior light, by indoctrinating the lower one, shimmers through the eyes, and races to penetrate into the inner spirit, the one that is rooted in the heart; it is in that fashion that an amorous conflagration is stirred into being. If, however, you do not want to fall into the spell of fascination, you must be extremely cautious, and guard your eyes specifically, as the eyes are largely the only windows of the soul when it comes to love. That is the reason behind the famous saying: “Averte, averte oculos tuos!” 5. Let this instruction suffice for now!” [Giordano Bruno 6]. “Fascination” is the technical term which is used to indicate the capacity of captivating people through the eyes. The image of the Medusa which petrifies by the look is certainly the metaphorical transposition of such a reality. It is the equivalent of the action we were able to notice in Virgilio T., as he literally “turned” his subjects “into statues”. Though it might be deemed strange that merely through the use of the sight it is possible to freeze a person by placing him in a state of “incantation”, the action exercised by this on the brain is given greater intelligibility if we were simply to pay notice to what happens after all to simple animals when they are dazzled by light. They stop dead in their tracks, as if immobilized in a state of astonishment, no longer able to decipher the situation they find themselves in. Mosquitoes go as far as incinerating themselves, a typical feature which is exploited by people in order to spend their summer without suffering too many bites. A possible way of explaining the phenomenon is that a direct look produces a restriction of the attention field in respect of the recipient of it, whence the gamut of different uses of the technique as applied in daily actions of persuasion. So long as, therefore, you keep some person under the grip of your look, you will learn that he will gain a greater capacity to perceive emotions and feelings. You will, at the same time, increasingly reduce the force of his subjective judgment and will 7. In order for the eye to be endowed with an effective strength, however, it is necessary to educate it through a specific training, and to attain an alert cognizance of its power. You ought to train yourselves, fundamentally, on how to acquire a fixed, interested, sweetly penetrating and expressive look. Once you have succeeded in doing so, you will be able to hold the first key among those which, provided they are used correctly, are going to open for you new doors in life. It is imperative that your vision should be simultaneously panoramic and incisive, such that it can encompass both the totality and the detailed particulars. This state occurs to many people during moments of enthusiasm. In order for you to bring it about at will, however, self-training is a mandatory duty. The practical benefits of that are manifold. In the field of persuasion, for instance, the eyes can produce an irresistible effect, and practical experience teaches us that such effect will be even stronger if we learn how to keep them open in a motionless state, studiously avoiding to deflect our look, albeit for a split second, away from the base of the other person’s nose, and simultaneously having a clear idea of what we desire to achieve. The exercises, apart from having the capacity to powerfully develop your eyes, will additionally sharpen your attention and evolve other indispensable faculties in life. An essential requirement is that you should learn to achieve firm power over your own selves. The first level of exercises which help develop this power properly is in fact based on mastering one’s own body and its impulses, emotions, violent desires, and the mental plane with its characteristic digressions and instability. The aim behind it is that all of the aforesaid should submit to the higher self and should transform into a positive instrument that guides our strengths and our eye in a conscious fashion, one which is not abandoned to dependence on mere instinctiveness. The ability to enchant, indeed, is not only human, yet only man is capable of steering it toward positive and delopment-bound purposes. Animals capture prey through the look as well, but only in an unconscious manner. There have always been tales of snakes gifted with special faculties to cast their charm upon their victim and thereby disable it from shunning its spires; their power reaches such an extreme degree that they cause birds to step down, draw closer, and let themselves be grabbed without being able to offer any resistance in an attempt at self-protection. A similar narration had also been reported to us by our master. The protagonists of that story consisted in a fox and some hens 8. A friend of his owned a hen house, and was astounded by the fact that some of the hens would go missing. Imagine how much did his astonishment escalate when he realized that such hens used to climb over a branch, while underneath, on the ground, a fox used to look at them and wave its head in the process. It appears as if, on their own initiative, the hens would then throw themselves underneath, where they would be devoured by the fox. Fascination is also the historical basis of the classical “give me your eyes, please” of the hypnotizers of yesteryear. Though such a personage is still alive in popular perceptions, he has effectively become extinct by now, given that the techniques of hypnosis which are currently utilized on a preponderant basis are both lengthy and based on the use of words. They mostly derive from a practice strand of American origin which is disconnected from the ancient tradition 9. No one among present-day professional hypnotists, not even among the most celebrious ones, is really capable of making use of the look. Nevertheless, look might, if and when it is understood, function as a valuable aid to any hypnotic influence, due to the fact that it engenders by itself a suspension of certain critical faculties, and does so in a totally natural manner. Summary of the methods of utilization of the technique 1. In everyday life and in the sphere or relationships: The reason why a certain person makes an impact on us, and seems to us “alive”, lies in the self-confident mastery exuded by a look which seduces, attracts, enchants. Our eye can be educated in this respect and guided to the attainment of those effects. 2. Within the therapeutic field: Since ancient times, healing power has been attributed to the look. Both Hippocrates 10 and Dioscorides 11, as well as Theophrastus 12, forcefully maintain that healing power could be exercised through the look, gestures and specific rituals. Our own master Erminio from Pisa 13, therefore, perpetuated such tradition by causing the instant healing of pains of the muscles and the skeleton, tinnitus, and several other disorders. A theory that might provide justification for such results is the one set out here under: The mind is sometimes caught in the grips of what is usually referred to as «fixed ideas». We keep on thinking the same things, and we let ourselves be constantly chased by the phantom of old thoughts and go round and round the same set of concepts. The charming attraction of the look, therefore, smashes such deeply engrained ideas. It is as if through the means of fascination, moreover, we succeeded in “entering the other person”. Every person’s world is fenced off by a limiting boundary consisting in the narrow space of what his sight encompasses and reaches up to. Accordingly, by meeting such person’s look we simultaneously penetrate inside the interpersonal reality of our interlocutor, and we are then able to help him “from within”. Even the phase of concentration and meditation techniques that one passes through with the aim of strengthening the eye contains within itself a practical usefulness in the field of personality reinforcement. 3. Within the arena of personal growth: We must possess awareness of the look. The exercises that are utilized for the sake of fascination might additionally prove to be of great avail if one seeks to acquire a clearer, neater and more magnetic personality, as well as to attain greater "Presence". 4. To induce a «hypnotic trance» in a natural way. Fascination might represent the key to develop a specific form of instant hypnosis. Besides, all hypnotic techniques are speeded up by prior recourse to the use of fascination. Fascination in the relationship between the two sexes Fascination is also a fundamental component of the forms which the relationship between man and woman take. What is it that, ultimately, makes a man distinguish a woman from thousands of unknown members of her sex who cross his way in the streets? Why is it that this man who, notwithstanding the fact that he has witnessed countless eyes staring at his, directs his look only to these particular eyes? It was but a flash, and yet that flash has unveiled to him an ocean of happiness and mystery. The relevant man, spellbound and enraptured, is forced to retrace his steps so as to meet again that look which has made his restless, which has unleashed into his soul a storm that is unable to subside unless he can again look out from the thresholds of this divine enigma. The reverse is likewise true: Man, with his look, captivates the woman, gazes at her, and she, in turn, lowers her gaze in order to attract him 14. The modern world is saturated with a plethora of social conventions, and no one can really attempt to make a loud confession of the feelings that are dearest to his heart, or give voice to the aspirations buried in his innermost being.