Exercise 2 Put yourself in the above-mentioned position; exhale all the air from lungs and while inhaling, lift up your arms horizontally, holding them as rigid as you can. You must make sure that you spend the same time to put the arms at a right angle with the body, as it takes to enter the air in the lungs. Immediately after, raise your arms above the head as much as you can and look to the tip of the foot. Then bend yourself slowly until touching, if possible, the floor with fingertips, without bending the knees. Then set upright while you exhale the air from lungs, let fall arms along the body. This exercise can cause at first a feeling of dizziness, but there will not be inconveniences whatsoever. This is simply because some parts of the body, especially of the lungs, which remained inactive for a long time, are now put into use. There is no exercise able to force the air to get in each particle of the lungs, as the one described above. It will take you no more than one minute each morning to perform this exercise, and a few days will be enough to convince the student that the benefits obtained are great. Not only is of great benefit to health, but also infuses to both, body and spirit, a magnetic energy not obtainable in other way. The key of muscle tension Let us act now on the muscles. These are the fundamental keys to increase progressively the magnetism. The mind works on the muscular system, but the latter can act upon the mind too. Characteristic of the work done with muscles is the nervous effort. Nervous effort activates a series of reactions in mind as well as physical exertion increases muscle mass. This energy is released later, and can also be increased to higher levels with subsequent contractions. The kinds of tensions to create energy have a particularity: we tense simultaneously a muscle and his antagonist. Therefore, we do not have movement, but simple contraction. Some scholars have supposed that this type of muscle tension, to a psychological level corresponds to a "not done action". Whenever we do an exercise of this kind, we load a unit of energy. You can increase the tension up to vibrate. In addition, the vibration creates a pace that can ease, by resonance, the creation of brain coherence. Besides, to more simple level, muscle tension stimulates the brain and creates a similar mental tension, able to enhance your thought. Exercise 23 Inhale and stretch arms before in front and then alongside, but not the hands, they remain relaxed. Exhale slowly. Repeat several times. Exercise 3 Lefebure "experiences initiatiques" Rise up on your toes inhaling; meanwhile clench fists, but only those, arms should be relaxed. This exercise develops, if performed inhaling and thinking of the word "energy", energy and strength. Muscle Fixity exercises In addition to the simple tension, it is also important to control the muscle strength. On muscular level, we will develop now fixity and attention. Exercise 4 This exercise builds fixity and self-confidence. Stretch out the right arm horizontally toward your right, and at the same time turn head to the right, staring intensely your fingertips. Little by little, prolong the duration of the exercise. You have to alternate arms. Complicate the exercise, holding a glass of water in your hand and staring intensely at the water level, which you have to keep as steady as you can. This exercise is also present in Count Kowalski‘s "A system of Caucasian Yoga". Develop attention and gaze To lead another one, we must first be able to lead ourselves. A wandering mind accomplishes very little. Be able to maintain attention means being able to keep mind’s "focus" on what one wishes to realize or in any case in a specific direction. It is a skill that once acquired is self-keeping. Indeed, you will be more concentrated in everyday life, study, work and be naturally more persuasive. In addition, the power of attention and concentration of thought, that you will so develop, will allow you to "fix" more easily in the body the results achieved with other types of exercise too. One uses attention while operating fascinative hypnosis, in which the mind of the customer is guided in a particular way. In the western verbal hypnosis too is important the subject's attention. The American hypnotist Milton Erickson, for example, was a teacher in driving attention. He was leading the subject to realize minimum details of his reactions, and from there was driving him to discover his own moods and resources. In the East too, they consider attention one of the basic features for the development of mental abilities. These schools bring the student work to control and guide gradually his attention up to get incredible results. The first step of this concentration type is called “Dharana”. Simple attention This is the first development level of this capacity. When to perform it? It is crucial. You must get to keep your eyes open as much as possible without blinking. Try to tend to keep them open at least fifteen minutes. Exercise 1: the first exercise of attention This exercise is also very suitable to create a powerful gaze and is a crucial exercise. Choose a point, a letter in a book or some other small item and begin to fix it intensively without blinking; all your attention has to be headed to the point. When it comes to blink, stop. You have to because when you blink the mind changes. When you are interested in something, eyelids do not flinch. Try to Milton Erickson "Healing in Hypnosis" Erickson, Rossi "Hypnotic realities" Patanjali’s fourth book of aphorisms, the base text for the Yoga study, which outlines global philosophy, begins with a series of sentences related to "concentration on one point". Ormond Mc Gill "Hypnotism and Mysticism of India" The fact that mind changes when blinking has been proved and tested in many ways: see for example the article "Eyes blinking reaction and its use in hypnosis" Anatoly Tkachev, M.A. and Inga Topeshko, M.A. This experiment shows how the blink gradually increase the time during which you can remain without blinking: you can start with a few tens of seconds and then gradually increase up to a minute, then start to add a minute at a time until you reach a quarter of an hour. Always rest a bit your eyes keeping them closed after doing this exercise. In theory, you could keep them closed for the same period and work, at that time, on visualization, trying to review what you have just observed. Do not ever rub them with your hands, not to irritate them. This exercise is very helpful, one of the best for those who want to learn how to hypnotize quickly and efficiently. Exercise 5 Make a great effort to read a page of a book every day without ever close your eyes. You will see the results already achieved with the previous exercise improving. Exercise 6 Another exercise you can do often and with many benefits is staring to an object at short distance, getting closer to it always staring, never lowering eyelids. In addition to its attractive effect, a nurtured gaze allows expressing different thoughts and feelings with an intensity that deeply impresses; in addition, the action of such a hypnotic gaze gives to whoever owns it a precious ascendancy. With the practice of fascination, you can perform a series of exercises very simple, also called “basic exercises". Here we will teach now some of those basic exercises, assuming the fixity already obtained. 1 ° in a living room, in the Church, theater, or any other meeting place, where several people are sitting one at the front of the other, gaze at the nape a person placed ahead of you at a distance of 2-3 meters concentrating all your energy on the idea of acting on her and make her turn, which will happen if the person is sensitive. You can also direct the action of the eyes on the two scapular or combine them into one point, for example on one of the first dorsal vertebrae. It is interesting to notice that very often the person will react immediately after your look. 2 ° make another attempt on the street, remaining two meters behind the chosen person. 3 ° with the second successful experience, you may want that person turning to the right or left. Formulating clearly in your mind the idea of left or right makes this purpose very easy. You can also do this by observing a group of people walking down the street and it is a very easy exercise. 4 ° on train, on tram, choose an individual seated facing to you whose place is appreciably to the right or left of that which is opposite. Simulate to normally occurs on words meaningful to the subject and at times when there is interchange conscious reasoning - unconscious mind. Even the ancients had noted the importance of the gaze, e.g. Isigonus, Aulus Gellius, Pliny, and bring attention to this element (fixe intueri).delle palpebre avvenga normalmente su parole significative per il soggetto ed in momenti in cui si ha interscambio ragionamento conscio-mente inconscia. Anche gli antichi avevano osservato l’importanza dello sguardo fisso, ad es. look straight, to give the impression that you do not see, but look at him sideways, directing to him with the stronger mental power you can, and say to yourself with all the energy you feel capable of, you want him to look in your direction. The chosen person will soon become restless, nervous, as if she was aware of a force that dominates her, and will end up looking on your side or even staring at you. 5 ° Get to the window and look at a person who comes towards you. If you fix it with sufficient energy expressing the will that raises her head and looks at you, it will almost invariably, obeying your mental recall. The experience can be done with the same process in backward conditions; namely, passing you set one person at a window. Two action elements come into the scene in this series of experiences: the magnetic power of gaze and the concentration of thought. When these experiences have succeeded once on two, you have conscience that you can dominate others and impose your will in large measure. Other experiments you can then try with the help of a friend or an ordinary person. Suppose that you want to obtain from him a service or an object from which he does not want to part from. You will focus your thoughts on the idea that he must deliver this object, without having him to suspect what action you want to exercise. You will place yourself in front of him talking about the satisfaction you would feel if you had the object even only for a few minutes, you stare to the subject of the experiment with sweetness and persistence, like to let his brain absorb the idea of handing over the object. If the penetration of the gaze is sufficiently developed, and if thought concentration is quite large, you will quickly notice that every word has, on the subject, a physical effect that goes straight to the point you want to reach. The interlocutor, who does not take long to be more or less completely subjugated, abdicates the throne and ends up giving the object that you want. Here there is evidently a beginning of hypnotizing. Until you hold someone under your eyes, you greatly diminish more and more the strength of his judgment and his will. Dealing in a convenient manner this principle, for example during a long interview, it is sure you will deeply disturb the interlocutor.