The direct light brings solar qualities: enthusiasm, energy Instead, reflected light stimulates Lunar qualities, such as insight and clairvoyance, (indeed, reflected light is polarized. Therefore, physiologically, our mind and our neurons are stimulated in such a way that facilitates in mind the creation of "fields of coherence", useful for these results). A very useful exercise is the following, which you can repeat when you feel like: 1° think of a quality that you desire 2° observe light mentally repeating the name of this quality for about thirty seconds 3° close your eyes, look at the residual image and do not think of anything 4° when the light track is disappeared open our eyes and notice the change in you. All the times you perform exercises with light and afterimage, you increase brain capacity. A way to perform these exercises is coupled with exercises of Visual Memory. In this case, you will observe lit objects (i.e. with a reflection). In the following pages you can read more specifications about. Mental images Basis for transmutation and activation of images and symbols For transmutation and improvement of the person, the usage of images and symbols is documented since ancient times. Also for the current psychology, in so doing we come closer to our subconscious in a more appropriate way, the image. The construction of images is crucial to the realization of the meeting between will and imagination, namely between the will and the world of possibilities, and is the key that allows to imprint a particular direction at the present in the physical world, and to create the situations we want. In other words, the magnetic individual, to impose a direction to reality, can use images. To whom is interested only in non-duality, we answer that it is true that the final stage of the way towards non-duality passes through knowledge and overcoming of all mind condensations, including symbols. Nevertheless, before we get to that level, these are tools necessary and irreplaceable to who has spiritual purposes only. The first phase: To get started in this subtle domain of our imagination, or, to express it in hermetic terms, in the ability to fix our “mercury”, you can begin building images that appear in the relaxed mind, with closed eyes. The body must eliminate any tension. Any mental effort blurs mental images. However, this phase, we call it passive imagination, is only an initial step in which you do not have to indulge too much. In fact, if we stay too long in the passive stage, the ability to infuse an impulse to our unconscious is becoming increasingly weak, and we end up with appearing images dominating us. We enter in a negative trance where imagination reigns. We risk to take the mood of the “peaceful dreamer” type. Second phase: The positive trance is the next step. It is more tiring, and consists of imagining whatever you want to. It is the union between will and imagination. It is then a first level of realization of the Hermetic Caduceus. • Remember that the images you create are totaling, in other words, when we speak of “imagination”, we mean something that is both visually and aurally, both tangible and perceptible. It takes time to achieve at maximum degree the ability to shape our mental material as clay, but the results are worth the effort. You will notice an increase in personal influence, and you'll realize that often the person beside you feel the same emotions you do. This phenomenon of "correlation" (to use a quantum term) binds fascination too, or rather the connection to another person through the eyes. With this type of direct technique an imagination of heat in one hand reflects in the person who looks at us, a feeling of scratchiness equally, and so forth. However, if this has to happen without talking, in excess of having a very much evolved imagination, you must accompany it with energy exercises. But these are results of «top school». In fact, the conscience of mental images is usually too weak in the average person to give an appreciable result, except in the case of a relationship very intense as lovers, or strong emotions. Images usage Our teacher Virgilio T., counseled us to observe images lit by "a reflection", then close our eyes and remember them exactly. The reflected light improves the retentive memory. Virtually, you will have a very strong light falling on the images that you want to focus on. In many traditions, there is just a habit of putting light sources close to important symbols. • Transmutation To stay in the Western tradition, the observation of icons and images is a fundamental element for the transmutation of man8. Often these images are lit. Next to the symbol, is therefore essential the usage of light, which leads to ' multiplication ' of the image’s effect. • Image & health The simple positive visualization, ' fixing ' the mercury of imagination can also act on health. Several scientific studies support the validity of that practice. In addition, for example, my collaborator Susanna (mentioned previously) has experienced the disappearance of a fibroid she was already been scheduled for surgery for, simply imagining his disappearance every night before falling asleep. In the same way, you can change behaviors and inveterate habits. Beware, you will not get results only with technique’s aid. What we are speaking of is an art, accessible only if we increase our level of awareness. Virtually, we must realize that what we call our subconscious it is us. Reconcile with him. Is our most primal and profound being that imagines, the root of our Id. However, at the end of this phase you can already perform the additional exercises at the end of the book. Nevertheless, if you want even greater effectiveness, you must pass to the next stage. The third stage: If, after following the instructions, you can easily view the object with your eyes closed, then you are ready for the next step: projection in physical space. Start with projecting the image onto a surface white or dark. Through these exercises, bring your spirit not to be a slave of your head, but to become real. Some call this status “positive trance”. To simplify things, we can tie the apparition to conditioned reflexes. Each position or repeated sound can serve this purpose. Speaking of which, we note the relationship between art of imagination and art of memory. The latter can actually define the ability to invoke to our spirit, at the appropriate time, pictures, events, reasoning and feelings already proven because of a stimulus. The memory is then in «set the mercury», namely, the imagination is normally free and wanders in humans. The passive principle (= A) is determined by the active principle (= D) linked to memory and attention. Sulfur of active consciousness operates as a principle promoter of mercury. It is when the will guides the attention, imprinting it in our unconscious. And then, imagination and memory, merging together, feeding intelligence, namely the penetration into the deep meaning of things as mentioned by Greeks, for whom Mnemosyne was the mother of the nine Muses, to signify that is the basis for the education of human spirit. Therefore, memory throws a bridge between the present and the past, and imagination does the same, because in connecting the world of possibilities and our will we can determine the present. Symbols and Mandala The setting of certain symbols is always one of the most secret traditional instruments to increase the fascinative force. The method is similar to that still practiced in Tibet and India on certain types of Mandalas. Watching them with intensity the fascinating person takes possession of their power. When to perform these exercises? It is not critical. They are quite enhancement and expansion of the created status. The numerological method of Virgilio T. Our teacher Virgilio T. counseled to use the photo of a person with fascinating aptitude and focus on it intensely. At this point, the practitioner asks to gain strength with a particular language, where through a series of transformations based on Numerology, converting words into numbers so, for example, “five give me eight” is the numerological transformation of “Virgilio give me magnetism”. You can use the same Numerology to create your own "keyword" to unleash the force. Bishoff Method In addition to focusing on the eyes of a picture pronouncing ciphers, another technique handed down by Bishoff and others consists in the observation of a drawn eye. First, you must pay attention fixedly to the central point. Then have to expand your gaze to the global outline of the eye, returning finally to the central point. And, mentioned by various schools of personal magnetism, see for example Apollonius "Manuel express de magnétisme personnel". The manual contains many handy exercises designed to increase the magnetic force through specific symbols. The tradition of using numbers for fascination seems to have ancient origin. In an article entitled "Walks in Calabria", Caterina Pignorini-Boers, tells of seeing into a home a horseshoe, two horns, and two numbers (fatal numbers) 8 and 9 to keep away the jinx. Then she asked "why?” The elderly woman said "against the jinks" ("Pel fora fascino, signorina"). And what is it a jinks? "Ah," said the elderly woman: " eight nine, nine eight!" But why use eight and nine? "Excellence witches say six and seven." (New Anthology – Roma – 1883 – p. 71 – p. 280) The Virgil T. method consists in the numerological sum of the letters of name, surname and date of birth. To this sum, you count also foreign letters. Then you reduce the result to a single cipher, except in the case that you have 11 or 22 (among other things 22 is the number of Cabala letters). After that, you create a phrase or a word with this number of letters. Other designs and Traditions based on symbols In addition to traditions of safe source, we refer now to some ancient drawings we received that could probably have the same goal of strengthening the eye power, which initiates to the technique can still use in this direction. Particularly significant is the image above (Kings-Gnostics, p. 238) where the attributes for each day of the week surround the eye, in the form of the deity who presides over each of them. These deities are symbolized by the Lion for the Dies Solis (Sunday), the Fawn for Dies Lunae (Monday - Diana Venatrix), the Scorpion for Dies Martis (Tuesday), the Dog for Dies Mercurii. The Thunderbolt appears to be the symbol of God Jupiter, and the Owl (sacred to Athena and Minerva) must have been inserted as a symbol of the Goddess Venus, since Venus is not considered as a protector towards fascination, while Minerva was always a patron deity and carried on her shield Medusa’s head. The serpent was a symbol of Hecate, one of the attributes of Diana Triformis and considered one of hers most powerful antidotes. Here we assume that the symbol was adopted as applicable to Dies Saturnii (226). Similarly, in this ancient gem the eye appears surrounded by four symbols that can refer to elements and in any case to highest deities. Observing this amulet, we think it was of Gnostic nature, and its origin was a Greek-Egyptian, although created subsequently. Then each symbol has to be interpreted as Egyptian from the Greek point of view. As we know from Pliny (note 227) there were not deer in Africa, it is clear that whoever created this amulet must have denoted with the deer a deity of the Greek-Roman mythology; and we must therefore ask ourselves which prototype existed in Egypt whose attributes were the same of Diana of Ephesus. This may not be other than Hathor, Goddess of Moon (228).