We risk to take the mood of the “peaceful dreamer” type. Second phase: The positive trance is the next step. It is more tiring, and consists of imagining whatever you want to. It is the union between will and imagination. It is then a first level of realization of the Hermetic Caduceus. • Remember that the images you create are totaling, in other words, when we speak of “imagination”, we mean something that is both visually and aurally, both tangible and perceptible. It takes time to achieve at maximum degree the ability to shape our mental material as clay, but the results are worth the effort. You will notice an increase in personal influence, and you'll realize that often the person beside you feel the same emotions you do. This phenomenon of "correlation" (to use a quantum term) binds fascination too, or rather the connection to another person through the eyes. With this type of direct technique an imagination of heat in one hand reflects in the person who looks at us, a feeling of scratchiness equally, and so forth. However, if this has to happen without talking, in excess of having a very much evolved imagination, you must accompany it with energy exercises. But these are results of «top school». In fact, the conscience of mental images is usually too weak in the average person to give an appreciable result, except in the case of a relationship very intense as lovers, or strong emotions. Images usage Our teacher Virgilio T., counseled us to observe images lit by "a reflection", then close our eyes and remember them exactly. The reflected light improves the retentive memory. Virtually, you will have a very strong light falling on the images that you want to focus on. In many traditions, there is just a habit of putting light sources close to important symbols. • Transmutation To stay in the Western tradition, the observation of icons and images is a fundamental element for the transmutation of man8. Often these images are lit. Next to the symbol, is therefore essential the usage of light, which leads to ' multiplication ' of the image’s effect. • Image & health The simple positive visualization, ' fixing ' the mercury of imagination can also act on health. Several scientific studies support the validity of that practice. In addition, for example, my collaborator Susanna (mentioned previously) has experienced the disappearance of a fibroid she was already been scheduled for surgery for, simply imagining his disappearance every night before falling asleep. In the same way, you can change behaviors and inveterate habits. Beware, you will not get results only with technique’s aid. What we are speaking of is an art, accessible only if we increase our level of awareness. Virtually, we must realize that what we call our subconscious it is us. Reconcile with him. Is our most primal and profound being that imagines, the root of our Id. However, at the end of this phase you can already perform the additional exercises at the end of the book. Nevertheless, if you want even greater effectiveness, you must pass to the next stage. The third stage: If, after following the instructions, you can easily view the object with your eyes closed, then you are ready for the next step: projection in physical space. Start with projecting the image onto a surface white or dark. Through these exercises, bring your spirit not to be a slave of your head, but to become real. Some call this status “positive trance”. To simplify things, we can tie the apparition to conditioned reflexes. Each position or repeated sound can serve this purpose. Speaking of which, we note the relationship between art of imagination and art of memory. The latter can actually define the ability to invoke to our spirit, at the appropriate time, pictures, events, reasoning and feelings already proven because of a stimulus. The memory is then in «set the mercury», namely, the imagination is normally free and wanders in humans. The passive principle (= A) is determined by the active principle (= D) linked to memory and attention. Sulfur of active consciousness operates as a principle promoter of mercury. It is when the will guides the attention, imprinting it in our unconscious. And then, imagination and memory, merging together, feeding intelligence, namely the penetration into the deep meaning of things as mentioned by Greeks, for whom Mnemosyne was the mother of the nine Muses, to signify that is the basis for the education of human spirit. Therefore, memory throws a bridge between the present and the past, and imagination does the same, because in connecting the world of possibilities and our will we can determine the present. Symbols and Mandala The setting of certain symbols is always one of the most secret traditional instruments to increase the fascinative force. The method is similar to that still practiced in Tibet and India on certain types of Mandalas. Watching them with intensity the fascinating person takes possession of their power. When to perform these exercises? It is not critical. They are quite enhancement and expansion of the created status. The numerological method of Virgilio T. Our teacher Virgilio T. counseled to use the photo of a person with fascinating aptitude and focus on it intensely. At this point, the practitioner asks to gain strength with a particular language, where through a series of transformations based on Numerology, converting words into numbers so, for example, “five give me eight” is the numerological transformation of “Virgilio give me magnetism”. You can use the same Numerology to create your own "keyword" to unleash the force. Bishoff Method In addition to focusing on the eyes of a picture pronouncing ciphers, another technique handed down by Bishoff and others consists in the observation of a drawn eye. First, you must pay attention fixedly to the central point. Then have to expand your gaze to the global outline of the eye, returning finally to the central point. And, mentioned by various schools of personal magnetism, see for example Apollonius "Manuel express de magnétisme personnel". The manual contains many handy exercises designed to increase the magnetic force through specific symbols. The tradition of using numbers for fascination seems to have ancient origin. In an article entitled "Walks in Calabria", Caterina Pignorini-Boers, tells of seeing into a home a horseshoe, two horns, and two numbers (fatal numbers) 8 and 9 to keep away the jinx. Then she asked "why?” The elderly woman said "against the jinks" ("Pel fora fascino, signorina"). And what is it a jinks? "Ah," said the elderly woman: " eight nine, nine eight!" But why use eight and nine? "Excellence witches say six and seven." (New Anthology – Roma – 1883 – p. 71 – p. 280) The Virgil T. method consists in the numerological sum of the letters of name, surname and date of birth. To this sum, you count also foreign letters. Then you reduce the result to a single cipher, except in the case that you have 11 or 22 (among other things 22 is the number of Cabala letters). After that, you create a phrase or a word with this number of letters. Other designs and Traditions based on symbols In addition to traditions of safe source, we refer now to some ancient drawings we received that could probably have the same goal of strengthening the eye power, which initiates to the technique can still use in this direction. Particularly significant is the image above (Kings-Gnostics, p. 238) where the attributes for each day of the week surround the eye, in the form of the deity who presides over each of them. These deities are symbolized by the Lion for the Dies Solis (Sunday), the Fawn for Dies Lunae (Monday - Diana Venatrix), the Scorpion for Dies Martis (Tuesday), the Dog for Dies Mercurii. The Thunderbolt appears to be the symbol of God Jupiter, and the Owl (sacred to Athena and Minerva) must have been inserted as a symbol of the Goddess Venus, since Venus is not considered as a protector towards fascination, while Minerva was always a patron deity and carried on her shield Medusa’s head. The serpent was a symbol of Hecate, one of the attributes of Diana Triformis and considered one of hers most powerful antidotes. Here we assume that the symbol was adopted as applicable to Dies Saturnii (226). Similarly, in this ancient gem the eye appears surrounded by four symbols that can refer to elements and in any case to highest deities. Observing this amulet, we think it was of Gnostic nature, and its origin was a Greek-Egyptian, although created subsequently. Then each symbol has to be interpreted as Egyptian from the Greek point of view. As we know from Pliny (note 227) there were not deer in Africa, it is clear that whoever created this amulet must have denoted with the deer a deity of the Greek-Roman mythology; and we must therefore ask ourselves which prototype existed in Egypt whose attributes were the same of Diana of Ephesus. This may not be other than Hathor, Goddess of Moon (228). And the thunderbolt can represent Serapis, a Sun God. Therefore, each of the symbols represented solves as the Sun or the Moon. Is a sculpted Onyx (223) by Gerhard's collection, with a central eye and at sides the head of Serapis, the Eagle, the Thunderbolt, and the Dolphin. These can easily relate to the four elements: Thunderbolt to fire, Dolphin to water, Eagle to air, and the head of Serapis to Earth. Some researchers interpret these ancient gems as amulets, but this attribution is not the only possible: there is no doubt that they can also be used as a Mandala to strengthen fascinating power by who knows the methodology and how to interpret the symbols. To operate in such a way the focusing, as in the Bishoff methodology, must perform first on the eye, extending then the look at the symbols viewed with peripheral side vision and eventually returning to the eye. Exteriorizing: The Psychic Projection. It is possible to irradiate magnetism even at distance. These three methods of ancient origin have for common base the "retirement in silence”. That means the student has to retire into a room where cannot be disturbed nor hear any noise. Must be sitting or lying down, but at ease, and get about ten minutes during a State of absolute passivity. The muscles should be relaxed, the thought quiet. First Method The first method is the mental picture. When you are in a status of calmness described above, sit down at a table and write very readably on a white sheet of paper a succinct phrase expressing a desire whatsoever. Write for example "I want to cease the disagreements I have with the guy"; or “I want Mr. X forced to do this or that other thing." After writing what you want, readably and briefly, set yourself at ease and focus on your script, concentrating the thought with intensity, but calmly, on the meaning of the lines you have on sight. Breathe deeply and slowly. The procedure just described bases on the theory that by this means you get to produce in a perfect way some mental streams in full strength. Another explanation could come by considering the quantum nature of reality, or by the principle of synchronicity stated the first time by Carl Gustav Jung. Those who finally want to adopt a fully psychological point of view may think that it works because we create a "matrix" in our unconscious mind that tends to facilitate the occurrence of certain events.