Un modo per accedere ad ogni simbolo è rappresentato dalla sensorialità. Un fondamentale esercizio è chiamato “acqua calda ed acqua fredda”[2]. Consiste nel [1] Dennis, Etruria, vol ii. p. 160 [2] Questo esercizio è tra i primi, se non il primo nella tradizione di Virgilio T. Reintegrare le “sottosensorialità” Chiamiamo “sottosensorialità” una serie di sensorialità ultraperiferiche di cui normalmente non ci rendiamo conto, e che avvengono sotto il livello della nostra coscienza (subliminali). Per essere sempre più presenti esse devono essere reintegrate. Integrare le sottosensorialità è la chiave per aumentare la propria sensibilità. Avremo: a livello fisico le sensazioni del MAGNETISMO a livello visivo le cosiddette “auree” a livello uditivo i “sottosuoni” I seguenti esercizi possono aiutare ad integrare queste sottosensorialità CORPO Le sensazioni magnetiche Avvicinate un dito al palmo della vostra mano. Anche senza toccare il palmo avvertirete una sensazione come di formicolio sullo stesso; allontanate il dito e notate come vi possa essere una sensazione che permane. Dopo quest’esercizio preliminare, allenatevi quotidianamente a portare energia al vostro “hara” (il vostro ombelico) attraverso i “passi magnetici”. VISTA L’Aura Esercizio 22 – concentrazione allo specchio Di fronte ad uno specchio eseguite i seguenti passaggi: Con una luce non troppo forte e senza interruzioni, respirate lentamente e guardate la vostra faccia in uno specchio. L'ideale è praticare questo quando siete un poco stanchi, ma non troppo Rimanete in uno stato rilassato e focalizzatevi sul punto centrale, un occhio o la vostra fronte. In breve tempo potrete sentire un calore nel retro del collo. A questo punto continuate a fissare Questo calore è la vostra energia. Potete immaginare di aprire ora una porta a questo punto vedete una luce bianca attorno a voi ed osservate l'immagine che cambia Nota – eliminare il mal di testa eventuale L’esercizio precedente potrebbe lasciare una leggera sensazione di mal di testa. Potete facilmente eliminare i mal di testa conseguenti a quest'esercizio piazzando una mano sul cuore e l'altra sulla fronte. Successivamente togliete la mano dalla fronte e mettetela sul retro della nuca. questo elimina la sensazione. Esercizio 23 - aura Potete utilizzare la stessa tecnica per vedere quella che viene chiamata “l'aura”. Rilassatevi e dirigetevi interiormente verso il vedere l'aura del soggetto. Respirate lentamente. Guardate attraverso o attorno al soggetto. Quando defocalizzate appare una luce di contorno. UDITO Il suono interiore Tappatevi le orecchie. Sentirete come un borbottio. E’ il sangue che passa vicino alle vostre cellule uditive. Mantenete attenzione su questo rumore. Cercate di sentirlo in un ambiente silenzioso anche senza tapparvi le orecchie e rimanendo presenti. Successivamente cercate di ampliare la vostra percezione fino a poterlo catturare il più spesso possibile. The glance Another very important exercise is what is called "near-far", or "glance". It consists in observing a distant point and at the same time maintaining peripheral consciousness in the field close to the point and vice versa. This exercise, when properly executed, combines two elements: 1) the adjustment of gaze, 2) the fact that both eyes are "awake" Exercise 30 – near-far Holding the hand stretched out in front of you, practically consists in focusing first at your thumb and then at a distance. If the exercise is done well, we will see, in the side field, two thumbs (due to non-centered vision of the eye) when we look far away, and two distant objects (due to non-centered vision of the eye) when we look close. Exercise 31 – with breathing The same exercise, holding your breath The Key of Light Light is an important tool that can awaken in a person's abilities and powers. The light stimulates the mind at the global level, increasing creativity, willingness to do, and energy. The direct light brings solar qualities: enthusiasm, energy Instead, reflected light stimulates Lunar qualities, such as insight and clairvoyance, (indeed, reflected light is polarized. Therefore, physiologically, our mind and our neurons are stimulated in such a way that facilitates in mind the creation of "fields of coherence", useful for these results). A very useful exercise is the following, which you can repeat when you feel like: 1° think of a quality that you desire 2° observe light mentally repeating the name of this quality for about thirty seconds 3° close your eyes, look at the residual image and do not think of anything 4° when the light track is disappeared open our eyes and notice the change in you. All the times you perform exercises with light and afterimage, you increase brain capacity. A way to perform these exercises is coupled with exercises of Visual Memory. In this case, you will observe lit objects (i.e. with a reflection). In the following pages you can read more specifications about. Mental images Basis for transmutation and activation of images and symbols For transmutation and improvement of the person, the usage of images and symbols is documented since ancient times. Also for the current psychology, in so doing we come closer to our subconscious in a more appropriate way, the image. The construction of images is crucial to the realization of the meeting between will and imagination, namely between the will and the world of possibilities, and is the key that allows to imprint a particular direction at the present in the physical world, and to create the situations we want. In other words, the magnetic individual, to impose a direction to reality, can use images. To whom is interested only in non-duality, we answer that it is true that the final stage of the way towards non-duality passes through knowledge and overcoming of all mind condensations, including symbols. Nevertheless, before we get to that level, these are tools necessary and irreplaceable to who has spiritual purposes only. The first phase: To get started in this subtle domain of our imagination, or, to express it in hermetic terms, in the ability to fix our “mercury”, you can begin building images that appear in the relaxed mind, with closed eyes. The body must eliminate any tension. Any mental effort blurs mental images. However, this phase, we call it passive imagination, is only an initial step in which you do not have to indulge too much. In fact, if we stay too long in the passive stage, the ability to infuse an impulse to our unconscious is becoming increasingly weak, and we end up with appearing images dominating us. We enter in a negative trance where imagination reigns. We risk to take the mood of the “peaceful dreamer” type. Second phase: The positive trance is the next step. It is more tiring, and consists of imagining whatever you want to. It is the union between will and imagination. It is then a first level of realization of the Hermetic Caduceus. • Remember that the images you create are totaling, in other words, when we speak of “imagination”, we mean something that is both visually and aurally, both tangible and perceptible. It takes time to achieve at maximum degree the ability to shape our mental material as clay, but the results are worth the effort. You will notice an increase in personal influence, and you'll realize that often the person beside you feel the same emotions you do. This phenomenon of "correlation" (to use a quantum term) binds fascination too, or rather the connection to another person through the eyes. With this type of direct technique an imagination of heat in one hand reflects in the person who looks at us, a feeling of scratchiness equally, and so forth. However, if this has to happen without talking, in excess of having a very much evolved imagination, you must accompany it with energy exercises. But these are results of «top school». In fact, the conscience of mental images is usually too weak in the average person to give an appreciable result, except in the case of a relationship very intense as lovers, or strong emotions. Images usage Our teacher Virgilio T., counseled us to observe images lit by "a reflection", then close our eyes and remember them exactly. The reflected light improves the retentive memory. Virtually, you will have a very strong light falling on the images that you want to focus on. In many traditions, there is just a habit of putting light sources close to important symbols. • Transmutation To stay in the Western tradition, the observation of icons and images is a fundamental element for the transmutation of man8. Often these images are lit. Next to the symbol, is therefore essential the usage of light, which leads to ' multiplication ' of the image’s effect. • Image & health The simple positive visualization, ' fixing ' the mercury of imagination can also act on health. Several scientific studies support the validity of that practice. In addition, for example, my collaborator Susanna (mentioned previously) has experienced the disappearance of a fibroid she was already been scheduled for surgery for, simply imagining his disappearance every night before falling asleep. In the same way, you can change behaviors and inveterate habits. Beware, you will not get results only with technique’s aid. What we are speaking of is an art, accessible only if we increase our level of awareness. Virtually, we must realize that what we call our subconscious it is us. Reconcile with him. Is our most primal and profound being that imagines, the root of our Id. However, at the end of this phase you can already perform the additional exercises at the end of the book. Nevertheless, if you want even greater effectiveness, you must pass to the next stage. The third stage: If, after following the instructions, you can easily view the object with your eyes closed, then you are ready for the next step: projection in physical space. Start with projecting the image onto a surface white or dark. Through these exercises, bring your spirit not to be a slave of your head, but to become real. Some call this status “positive trance”. To simplify things, we can tie the apparition to conditioned reflexes. Each position or repeated sound can serve this purpose. Speaking of which, we note the relationship between art of imagination and art of memory. The latter can actually define the ability to invoke to our spirit, at the appropriate time, pictures, events, reasoning and feelings already proven because of a stimulus. The memory is then in «set the mercury», namely, the imagination is normally free and wanders in humans. The passive principle (= A) is determined by the active principle (= D) linked to memory and attention. Sulfur of active consciousness operates as a principle promoter of mercury. It is when the will guides the attention, imprinting it in our unconscious. And then, imagination and memory, merging together, feeding intelligence, namely the penetration into the deep meaning of things as mentioned by Greeks, for whom Mnemosyne was the mother of the nine Muses, to signify that is the basis for the education of human spirit. Therefore, memory throws a bridge between the present and the past, and imagination does the same, because in connecting the world of possibilities and our will we can determine the present. Symbols and Mandala The setting of certain symbols is always one of the most secret traditional instruments to increase the fascinative force. The method is similar to that still practiced in Tibet and India on certain types of Mandalas.