A proficient orator deliberately trains the way he looks at the audience in order to lend greater force and persuasive efficacy to his verbalizations. In the course of this book, we shall discover how such a force is susceptible of being developed by recourse to a self-disciplining method. Indeed, already when we limit ourselves to looking around without any specific purpose, even without any specific instructions, we are in fact communicating a myriad of different messages. If, however, we develop conscious awareness of what we do, we will manage to ultimately learn how to subjugate these energies possessed by the look. Indeed, in extreme circumstances, the ability we will have gained thereby is going to extend, in the sphere of interpersonal relationships, to the power to “enchant” whoever watches us, to create “an instantaneous hypnosis”; at the same time, from the viewpoint of the receptive side of looks, we will understand and perceive many more things than those we would otherwise regard as possible. The present work is the world’s most profoundly comprehensive text on this subject. It has its roots both in practical experience and in the attentive study of all the relevant literature we have been able to lay our hands on. We have accordingly referred, in the course of our footnotes, to hundreds of varied historical, scientific and experiential sources. An other result, one more closely connected to everyday life, is to learn to use the power of the eye so as to develop your Presence, Status, Prestige, Charm, Self-caring, Charisma, and Leadership, up to the point that you literally become capable oh hypnotizing and magnetizing whichever person is watching you. Attractive charm, according to the ancient way of looking at things, is in fact “a far-reaching power that is exercised by a look over another look, one charged with such a force that whoever was subjected to it was unable to extricate his self from it, and was accordingly compelled to be fascinated by it”. We are able, in this context, to record an age-long uninterrupted sequence, running across centuries, of witnesses’ first-hand descriptions of how such force would materialize. This ongoing chain of consistent records spans the medieval, Roman and pre-Roman ages without exception. The most recondite aspects of such tradition appear to have been incessantly transmitted in Italy more than in any other part of the world, though such transmission took place within the most exclusive elites of special affiliates. This ancient mode of looking at things has in fact always been practiced on the basis of a direct transmission from master to disciple, without resorting to written texts, other than, at the most, some allusive documents carrying meanings which were concealed from non-adepts, and odd systems of arcane symbols. In order to lend efficacy to this force, it is essential for us to develop awareness of the strength inherent in our look, as well as to develop a different vision. Though this is a practically orientated tradition, in order to understand and, even more, to put this art into practice, what is indeed required is an approach to reality which opens up to different and all-encompassing dimensions. They have to differ, in other words, from the linear and limited dimension of modern man. For modern man, the eye is a mere passive organ. If we, however, desire to appropriate the power inherent in the eye, we have to actively employ it and draw close to quantistic physics, which teaches us precisely that “the observer influences the observed”. In fascination we detect transformation, both the transformation of the one who actively inspires it and the one who is the passive recipient thereof. Fascination is additionally able to confer a scientific basis on the otherwise inexplicable thereapeutic ability possessed by several healers. The original sources of our interest in the subject Everything originated at first in our odd encounter with “the last of the fascinators”: Virgilio T. 2, who currently lives in a state of deliberate obscurity by the valleys of Piedmont. He appears to be the last custodian of one part of the secrets of this most ancient school. During a series of subsequent meetings, spread over a period in excess of twenty years, he has gradually introduced us to the strange and arcane power of the gaze, and has passed onto us increasingly more mysterious and secret exercises. The first one to meet him was actually a friend of mine, Max, who, having approached him in order to seek information on what hypnotism was, received a very practical reply to his inquiry. Virgilio T., who at that stage worked as a barber, asked those who were present at the barber’s shop whether they agreed to take part in an experiment. Once he received a positive reply to his said request, he closed the door of the shop and firmly fized his gaze on one of the customers, who had moreover assumed a somewhat defiant look. His defiant posturing only lasted for a very short period. Within a few seconds, in fact, that customer took on a livid appearance. Virgilio told him that the cigarette was bad. The customer thus addressed began to cough so much that Virgilio was forced to slap him in the face a few times in order to bring him back to his senses. When it came to the second customer, he did not even utter a single word to him. He fixed him closely, and this other customer’s look turned pallid and diaphanous as if it was made of wax. At that point, Virgilio carried out a facetious probative exercise: Faced with the question on what his name was, such customer answered by mentioning a woman’s name which had not even been verbally suggested (to him by Virgilio), only through the power of thought. Virgilio thereupon woke him up. Moved by his curiosity, Max took to Virgilio a number of his friends, and witnessed similar events on several other occasions. Even I succeeded in experiencing on my own skin the power of this seemingly quiet person who, besides the ability I have just described, had also developed a special sensitivity to energies, to such an extent that he was a capable medical diviner equipped with the talent to retrieve an object concealed inside a room. Where does all of this originate? Having intuitively realized that recourse to such technique might have stretched even beyond what we had been witnesses to, and that this power might be used for the additional purpose of making people feel better, we resolved on becomingVirgilio’s students and intimate associates, to whom he could have confided his secrets. We then realized that, in order to attain such power, what is needed is a disciplined work upon one’s own self, which is also grounded on a series of techniques and exercises encompassing self-control as well as self-development and self-improvement. Virgilio is not, however, the only exponent of such school which we owe our knowledge of the subject to. A contribution to the completion of this work was also made by the late Prof. Erminio from Pisa 3. He used to refer to fascination by the term of “instantaneous hypnosis”. In spite of the fact that both Virgilio T. and Erminio from Pisa were consummate masters in this art, the former, albeit capable of producing rapid results, operates only by leaving a superficial and short-term imprint, at a time that the work carried out by the latter pushes this technique onto a different level, one that has a deep effect and succeeds in healing plentiful pathologies on an enduring basis. In so doing, it traces itself back to a long tradition of therapeutic fascination. After all, Virgilio, fully aware as he was of his limits, made use of his brand of hypnosis, never mind how spectacular, only as a game or for theatrical effect, whereas Prof. Erminio from Pisa was accustomed to assiduously cure dozens of people on a weekly basis, within his study, as part of his regular professional activity. Most of these persons would get cured in a single session lasting ten seconds or so. Even those who were most amenable to recurrent relapses, needed no more than 2 to 3 sessions before the beneficial effects of fascination accomplished through the look embedded themselves firmly in their organisms. Prof. Erminio was a person marked by a forceful personality. In his work methodology, as was the case with the ancient people, he always strove to be in a state of balance with the universal harmony, which he used to discern as a result of his astrological studies. It is thus from him that we have learnt how to employ this art for healing purposes. This is a technique that we are going to lay out in the second part of the book. Prof. Erminio, too, had been directly introduced to this discipline by an existing master: Prof. Caravelli. The latter was a masterful expert in the so-called art of “bi-location”, so much so that he could be simultaneously perceived in two different places. That is how we have made our acquaintance with this technique, which is as ancient as it is beneficial. These keys had remained hidden up to now. Indeed, although, since the days of the most remote past, testimonies had been adduced of people who were able to exercise a powerful influence with the look, the true method of bringing that about had in fact always been kept secret, or at least transmitted only on condition of maintaining a high degree of confidentiality. Even a very committed devotee of this type of subjects such as William Atkinson, who is one of the few people to have consecrated an entire book to the subject, one that bears the title of “Mental Fascination” 4, deals with it from the outside, in the process mentioning that he had interviewed some people, while clarifying the fact that had not been personally initiated to the technique. Likewise, Seligmann, a German ophthalmologist who authoured in this regard a monumental work comprising more than 2500 literary sources he had quoted therein, had never been let in the art from inside. Accordingly, as with many authors in the field, he offers us a puzzle without however being able to provide us with a true solution to it. It does not end here, however. Though we have been introduced to the technique, we can personally attest to the fact that there are still many obscure points in need of clarification, as regards the degree of potency of this hidden and extraordinary power. Fields of utilization of fascination “Fascination is actualized by a lucid and subtle virtue which the heat of the heart gives birth to as one equipped with a purer blood. This heat is emanated in the form of rays which, emitted by open eyes fixing their gaze with strong imaginative power, ultimately produce a wound in the object of their look, touch the heart, and succeed in afflicting the other person’s heart and spirit, either with love or hatred, with envy, melancholia, or some other kindred emotional force. Feeling the attraction of love is a phenomenon which takes place when two people frequently eye one another through a direct, intense look. In that case, visual rays, mutually radiating, meet one another, and light is wedded to light. It is at that point that spirits are conjoined together, and that the superior light, by indoctrinating the lower one, shimmers through the eyes, and races to penetrate into the inner spirit, the one that is rooted in the heart; it is in that fashion that an amorous conflagration is stirred into being. If, however, you do not want to fall into the spell of fascination, you must be extremely cautious, and guard your eyes specifically, as the eyes are largely the only windows of the soul when it comes to love. That is the reason behind the famous saying: “Averte, averte oculos tuos!” 5. Let this instruction suffice for now!” [Giordano Bruno 6]. “Fascination” is the technical term which is used to indicate the capacity of captivating people through the eyes. The image of the Medusa which petrifies by the look is certainly the metaphorical transposition of such a reality. It is the equivalent of the action we were able to notice in Virgilio T., as he literally “turned” his subjects “into statues”. Though it might be deemed strange that merely through the use of the sight it is possible to freeze a person by placing him in a state of “incantation”, the action exercised by this on the brain is given greater intelligibility if we were simply to pay notice to what happens after all to simple animals when they are dazzled by light. They stop dead in their tracks, as if immobilized in a state of astonishment, no longer able to decipher the situation they find themselves in. Mosquitoes go as far as incinerating themselves, a typical feature which is exploited by people in order to spend their summer without suffering too many bites. A possible way of explaining the phenomenon is that a direct look produces a restriction of the attention field in respect of the recipient of it, whence the gamut of different uses of the technique as applied in daily actions of persuasion. So long as, therefore, you keep some person under the grip of your look, you will learn that he will gain a greater capacity to perceive emotions and feelings. You will, at the same time, increasingly reduce the force of his subjective judgment and will 7. In order for the eye to be endowed with an effective strength, however, it is necessary to educate it through a specific training, and to attain an alert cognizance of its power. You ought to train yourselves, fundamentally, on how to acquire a fixed, interested, sweetly penetrating and expressive look. Once you have succeeded in doing so, you will be able to hold the first key among those which, provided they are used correctly, are going to open for you new doors in life. It is imperative that your vision should be simultaneously panoramic and incisive, such that it can encompass both the totality and the detailed particulars. This state occurs to many people during moments of enthusiasm. In order for you to bring it about at will, however, self-training is a mandatory duty. The practical benefits of that are manifold. In the field of persuasion, for instance, the eyes can produce an irresistible effect, and practical experience teaches us that such effect will be even stronger if we learn how to keep them open in a motionless state, studiously avoiding to deflect our look, albeit for a split second, away from the base of the other person’s nose, and simultaneously having a clear idea of what we desire to achieve. The exercises, apart from having the capacity to powerfully develop your eyes, will additionally sharpen your attention and evolve other indispensable faculties in life. An essential requirement is that you should learn to achieve firm power over your own selves. The first level of exercises which help develop this power properly is in fact based on mastering one’s own body and its impulses, emotions, violent desires, and the mental plane with its characteristic digressions and instability. The aim behind it is that all of the aforesaid should submit to the higher self and should transform into a positive instrument that guides our strengths and our eye in a conscious fashion, one which is not abandoned to dependence on mere instinctiveness. The ability to enchant, indeed, is not only human, yet only man is capable of steering it toward positive and delopment-bound purposes. Animals capture prey through the look as well, but only in an unconscious manner. There have always been tales of snakes gifted with special faculties to cast their charm upon their victim and thereby disable it from shunning its spires; their power reaches such an extreme degree that they cause birds to step down, draw closer, and let themselves be grabbed without being able to offer any resistance in an attempt at self-protection. A similar narration had also been reported to us by our master. The protagonists of that story consisted in a fox and some hens 8. A friend of his owned a hen house, and was astounded by the fact that some of the hens would go missing. Imagine how much did his astonishment escalate when he realized that such hens used to climb over a branch, while underneath, on the ground, a fox used to look at them and wave its head in the process. It appears as if, on their own initiative, the hens would then throw themselves underneath, where they would be devoured by the fox. Fascination is also the historical basis of the classical “give me your eyes, please” of the hypnotizers of yesteryear. Though such a personage is still alive in popular perceptions, he has effectively become extinct by now, given that the techniques of hypnosis which are currently utilized on a preponderant basis are both lengthy and based on the use of words.