Very little: what he says is not generally important to you, but gives you the impression that it is, while you listen. He makes you feel that, if he would like to, he could say much more. Therefore, he stings your curiosity, but he does not give you the impression of an attempt to mystify you. His eye is too frank, and even if you knew him since ten years, you will never discover in his conversation the clue of a trap he sets to be admired. 8. He acts according to fixed laws. This man who has achieved popularity, influence, wealth or success, he simply accepted these gifts, considering them as if they were due, as the logical result of putting into action the laws of cause and effect. 9. He is likeable. Which impression gave you this man? This: you want to know him better because you feel that he is nice, in a mysterious way you cannot define. He keeps you in his domain, and you cannot avoid his influence even after leaving him. 10. He is using your strength. If now you want remember well the conversation you had with him, you will see — although then you did not notice — that you were the one showing your knowledge, you have been the one who tried to please: in a word, you were the one who gave. You gave he received. If he would have wanted it to be otherwise, strong of his consciousness value, he would have forced you to receive from him whatever he would have liked to give you, in terms of impulses, orders, ideas. If he wanted to, he could have made you bend as wind bends the reeds of a pond. Why is that? Because this is the Law, and he knows it, but you ignore it. Anyway, he did not want to, he simply granted himself to make a good impression, and then he left after having taken a bit of your magnetism, as the bee flies away after taking honey from a flower. Four requirements Vitality: Physical and energetic well-being. The more a person is energetic the bigger its fascinative power could be Balance: is closely related to calmness and mastery of oneself. Concentration - to have another one’s mind concentrated you must first know to focus yours Self-confidence and firmness of purpose PHYSIOLOGICAL KEYS Body (muscle’s tension usage) Breathing Light Strengthening Mental Rhythms Therefore, let us go back to practice now, and begin to analyze how to awake these man’s parts through specific exercises. Breathing Body oxygenation is of ultimate importance. Proper breathing is a priceless aid for those who want to cultivate Personal Magnetism. This will never be stated enough. A pure air has a certain influence over the body that one cannot achieve otherwise. There are very few people knowing how to breathe properly; and most of these, they neglect it too easily. Nature gave us lungs not to use them partly, but in their entirety. They contain hundreds of thousands of tiny cells within each of which should penetrate the air; if we use only a third of lungs breathing capacity, we won't get that half or one third of the benefits that we should obtain. Fundamental Exercise When to perform them In the morning and whenever you feel the need. Exercise 1 Place yourself fronting the open window, or in any other location as long as you have fresh and pure air; put yourself with the body erect, feet together, shoulder back and chest forward with the abdomen depressed. First exhale all the air from lungs, and then inhale slowly through nostrils, keeping your mouth shut. Inhale as much air as possible, afterwards hold your breath This chapter is the transcription of a typescript given to us by Virgil while counting slowly up to five. Then exhale the air from the mouth and after a few seconds rest, repeat the exercise. You should try to repeat it three or four times holding the breath a bit longer every time. After three or four mornings, this exercise can be omitted, instead perform the following. Exercise 2 Put yourself in the above-mentioned position; exhale all the air from lungs and while inhaling, lift up your arms horizontally, holding them as rigid as you can. You must make sure that you spend the same time to put the arms at a right angle with the body, as it takes to enter the air in the lungs. Immediately after, raise your arms above the head as much as you can and look to the tip of the foot. Then bend yourself slowly until touching, if possible, the floor with fingertips, without bending the knees. Then set upright while you exhale the air from lungs, let fall arms along the body. This exercise can cause at first a feeling of dizziness, but there will not be inconveniences whatsoever. This is simply because some parts of the body, especially of the lungs, which remained inactive for a long time, are now put into use. There is no exercise able to force the air to get in each particle of the lungs, as the one described above. It will take you no more than one minute each morning to perform this exercise, and a few days will be enough to convince the student that the benefits obtained are great. Not only is of great benefit to health, but also infuses to both, body and spirit, a magnetic energy not obtainable in other way. The key of muscle tension Let us act now on the muscles. These are the fundamental keys to increase progressively the magnetism. The mind works on the muscular system, but the latter can act upon the mind too. Characteristic of the work done with muscles is the nervous effort. Nervous effort activates a series of reactions in mind as well as physical exertion increases muscle mass. This energy is released later, and can also be increased to higher levels with subsequent contractions. The kinds of tensions to create energy have a particularity: we tense simultaneously a muscle and his antagonist. Therefore, we do not have movement, but simple contraction. Some scholars have supposed that this type of muscle tension, to a psychological level corresponds to a "not done action". Whenever we do an exercise of this kind, we load a unit of energy. You can increase the tension up to vibrate. In addition, the vibration creates a pace that can ease, by resonance, the creation of brain coherence. Besides, to more simple level, muscle tension stimulates the brain and creates a similar mental tension, able to enhance your thought. Exercise 23 Inhale and stretch arms before in front and then alongside, but not the hands, they remain relaxed. Exhale slowly. Repeat several times. Exercise 3 Lefebure "experiences initiatiques" Rise up on your toes inhaling; meanwhile clench fists, but only those, arms should be relaxed. This exercise develops, if performed inhaling and thinking of the word "energy", energy and strength. Muscle Fixity exercises In addition to the simple tension, it is also important to control the muscle strength. On muscular level, we will develop now fixity and attention. Exercise 4 This exercise builds fixity and self-confidence. Stretch out the right arm horizontally toward your right, and at the same time turn head to the right, staring intensely your fingertips. Little by little, prolong the duration of the exercise. You have to alternate arms. Complicate the exercise, holding a glass of water in your hand and staring intensely at the water level, which you have to keep as steady as you can. This exercise is also present in Count Kowalski‘s "A system of Caucasian Yoga". Develop attention and gaze To lead another one, we must first be able to lead ourselves. A wandering mind accomplishes very little. Be able to maintain attention means being able to keep mind’s "focus" on what one wishes to realize or in any case in a specific direction. It is a skill that once acquired is self-keeping. Indeed, you will be more concentrated in everyday life, study, work and be naturally more persuasive. In addition, the power of attention and concentration of thought, that you will so develop, will allow you to "fix" more easily in the body the results achieved with other types of exercise too. One uses attention while operating fascinative hypnosis, in which the mind of the customer is guided in a particular way. In the western verbal hypnosis too is important the subject's attention. The American hypnotist Milton Erickson, for example, was a teacher in driving attention. He was leading the subject to realize minimum details of his reactions, and from there was driving him to discover his own moods and resources. In the East too, they consider attention one of the basic features for the development of mental abilities. These schools bring the student work to control and guide gradually his attention up to get incredible results. The first step of this concentration type is called “Dharana”. Simple attention This is the first development level of this capacity. When to perform it? It is crucial. You must get to keep your eyes open as much as possible without blinking. Try to tend to keep them open at least fifteen minutes. Exercise 1: the first exercise of attention This exercise is also very suitable to create a powerful gaze and is a crucial exercise. Choose a point, a letter in a book or some other small item and begin to fix it intensively without blinking; all your attention has to be headed to the point. When it comes to blink, stop. You have to because when you blink the mind changes. When you are interested in something, eyelids do not flinch. Try to Milton Erickson "Healing in Hypnosis" Erickson, Rossi "Hypnotic realities" Patanjali’s fourth book of aphorisms, the base text for the Yoga study, which outlines global philosophy, begins with a series of sentences related to "concentration on one point". Ormond Mc Gill "Hypnotism and Mysticism of India" The fact that mind changes when blinking has been proved and tested in many ways: see for example the article "Eyes blinking reaction and its use in hypnosis" Anatoly Tkachev, M.A. and Inga Topeshko, M.A. This experiment shows how the blink gradually increase the time during which you can remain without blinking: you can start with a few tens of seconds and then gradually increase up to a minute, then start to add a minute at a time until you reach a quarter of an hour.