His appearance is harmonic. The magnetic individual is often noted at first glance. The concept is that of "personal charm". It does not matter the person is either handsome or ugly: his figure always releases a pleasant impression. His defects do not affect the view proportionally to their importance: on the contrary, what he has best is strangely striking in. In other words, you will see merits, not defects. His eyes have a brightness that gently fascinates. His voice seduces the ear. His attitude is both, sober and natural. 2. He seems to permeate the environment of a penetrating radiation. His presence seems to generate in those who approaches an odd sensation of well-being, a real inner pleasure. With him, the spirit seems to become lighter. The exact word to describe the status is "eurhythmy". In fact, a eurhythmy infinitely sweet is conquering and subduing you, leaving to you a lasting memory. This memory, rather than fade becomes intrusive and soon you are taken by an almost craving desire to relive that ineffable fascination. When you find yourself in the company of the magnetic man, the first impression he gives to you is that he is at rest: he is not nervous, not in a state. You feel then that he has in himself a reserve force, but do not know precisely how and where he possesses it. Is not right in his eyes neither in his ways, nor in his language, nor in its actions; nevertheless it exists and seems to be a part of him. That's exactly the fact: a little of that strength that he shows, and which you are aware of, has gone from you to him without your knowledge: is now a part of him, and a few minutes before, as it may seem odd, was for a small part a part of you! 3. His word has a particular authority. What he says creeps into soul and deeply impresses it. It moves and persuades, even when he does not seem to attach any importance to what he says. With a word, a look, a smile, he destabilizes, enchants, and seduces you. ---------------------- Harmony is also symmetry. Indeed a good inter-hemispheric communication also appears in appearance (symmetric movements for example). 4. His will acts at a distance. Away from him, one feels prone to please him. What he wants to get troubles your thought. Even away from him, the being that he directs his intentions to, infallibly remains his. In whom he is targeting, very quickly are developing, springing up and prevailing feelings, desires, and trends he likes to suggest. 5. He has a special look. Watch his look. His eyes are dominating you even though he is not staring at you. He does not look in your eyes or in one of your two eyes, but looks exactly between the two eyes, at the root of your nose. His gaze seems to penetrate you intentionally — a sharp gaze, but does not have anything unpleasant. You feel that he is not cheeky. Note as well that he will not look at you in this way when spoken to, but waits for your communication to send his. 6. He is always courteous. He listens to you gently: is always polite, but you get the impression of an unbending will beneath the apparent calmness: you sense a power. Is the man to whom one must obey: in a word, the impression he generates in you is that of one that knows exactly what he wants and is not in a hurry because he is certain to get it. 7. His conversation is simple. Let us analyze his conversation. Has taught you anything? Very little: what he says is not generally important to you, but gives you the impression that it is, while you listen. He makes you feel that, if he would like to, he could say much more. Therefore, he stings your curiosity, but he does not give you the impression of an attempt to mystify you. His eye is too frank, and even if you knew him since ten years, you will never discover in his conversation the clue of a trap he sets to be admired. 8. He acts according to fixed laws. This man who has achieved popularity, influence, wealth or success, he simply accepted these gifts, considering them as if they were due, as the logical result of putting into action the laws of cause and effect. 9. He is likeable. Which impression gave you this man? This: you want to know him better because you feel that he is nice, in a mysterious way you cannot define. He keeps you in his domain, and you cannot avoid his influence even after leaving him. 10. He is using your strength. If now you want remember well the conversation you had with him, you will see — although then you did not notice — that you were the one showing your knowledge, you have been the one who tried to please: in a word, you were the one who gave. You gave he received. If he would have wanted it to be otherwise, strong of his consciousness value, he would have forced you to receive from him whatever he would have liked to give you, in terms of impulses, orders, ideas. If he wanted to, he could have made you bend as wind bends the reeds of a pond. Why is that? Because this is the Law, and he knows it, but you ignore it. Anyway, he did not want to, he simply granted himself to make a good impression, and then he left after having taken a bit of your magnetism, as the bee flies away after taking honey from a flower. Four requirements Vitality: Physical and energetic well-being. The more a person is energetic the bigger its fascinative power could be Balance: is closely related to calmness and mastery of oneself. Concentration - to have another one’s mind concentrated you must first know to focus yours Self-confidence and firmness of purpose PHYSIOLOGICAL KEYS Body (muscle’s tension usage) Breathing Light Strengthening Mental Rhythms Therefore, let us go back to practice now, and begin to analyze how to awake these man’s parts through specific exercises. Breathing Body oxygenation is of ultimate importance. Proper breathing is a priceless aid for those who want to cultivate Personal Magnetism. This will never be stated enough. A pure air has a certain influence over the body that one cannot achieve otherwise. There are very few people knowing how to breathe properly; and most of these, they neglect it too easily. Nature gave us lungs not to use them partly, but in their entirety. They contain hundreds of thousands of tiny cells within each of which should penetrate the air; if we use only a third of lungs breathing capacity, we won't get that half or one third of the benefits that we should obtain. Fundamental Exercise When to perform them In the morning and whenever you feel the need. Exercise 1 Place yourself fronting the open window, or in any other location as long as you have fresh and pure air; put yourself with the body erect, feet together, shoulder back and chest forward with the abdomen depressed. First exhale all the air from lungs, and then inhale slowly through nostrils, keeping your mouth shut. Inhale as much air as possible, afterwards hold your breath This chapter is the transcription of a typescript given to us by Virgil while counting slowly up to five. Then exhale the air from the mouth and after a few seconds rest, repeat the exercise. You should try to repeat it three or four times holding the breath a bit longer every time. After three or four mornings, this exercise can be omitted, instead perform the following. Exercise 2 Put yourself in the above-mentioned position; exhale all the air from lungs and while inhaling, lift up your arms horizontally, holding them as rigid as you can. You must make sure that you spend the same time to put the arms at a right angle with the body, as it takes to enter the air in the lungs. Immediately after, raise your arms above the head as much as you can and look to the tip of the foot. Then bend yourself slowly until touching, if possible, the floor with fingertips, without bending the knees. Then set upright while you exhale the air from lungs, let fall arms along the body. This exercise can cause at first a feeling of dizziness, but there will not be inconveniences whatsoever. This is simply because some parts of the body, especially of the lungs, which remained inactive for a long time, are now put into use. There is no exercise able to force the air to get in each particle of the lungs, as the one described above. It will take you no more than one minute each morning to perform this exercise, and a few days will be enough to convince the student that the benefits obtained are great. Not only is of great benefit to health, but also infuses to both, body and spirit, a magnetic energy not obtainable in other way. The key of muscle tension Let us act now on the muscles. These are the fundamental keys to increase progressively the magnetism. The mind works on the muscular system, but the latter can act upon the mind too. Characteristic of the work done with muscles is the nervous effort.