In addition, the power of attention and concentration of thought, that you will so develop, will allow you to "fix" more easily in the body the results achieved with other types of exercise too. One uses attention while operating fascinative hypnosis, in which the mind of the customer is guided in a particular way. In the western verbal hypnosis too is important the subject's attention. The American hypnotist Milton Erickson, for example, was a teacher in driving attention. He was leading the subject to realize minimum details of his reactions, and from there was driving him to discover his own moods and resources. In the East too, they consider attention one of the basic features for the development of mental abilities. These schools bring the student work to control and guide gradually his attention up to get incredible results. The first step of this concentration type is called “Dharana”. Simple attention This is the first development level of this capacity. When to perform it? It is crucial. You must get to keep your eyes open as much as possible without blinking. Try to tend to keep them open at least fifteen minutes. Exercise 1: the first exercise of attention This exercise is also very suitable to create a powerful gaze and is a crucial exercise. Choose a point, a letter in a book or some other small item and begin to fix it intensively without blinking; all your attention has to be headed to the point. When it comes to blink, stop. You have to because when you blink the mind changes. When you are interested in something, eyelids do not flinch. Try to Milton Erickson "Healing in Hypnosis" Erickson, Rossi "Hypnotic realities" Patanjali’s fourth book of aphorisms, the base text for the Yoga study, which outlines global philosophy, begins with a series of sentences related to "concentration on one point". Ormond Mc Gill "Hypnotism and Mysticism of India" The fact that mind changes when blinking has been proved and tested in many ways: see for example the article "Eyes blinking reaction and its use in hypnosis" Anatoly Tkachev, M.A. and Inga Topeshko, M.A. This experiment shows how the blink gradually increase the time during which you can remain without blinking: you can start with a few tens of seconds and then gradually increase up to a minute, then start to add a minute at a time until you reach a quarter of an hour. Always rest a bit your eyes keeping them closed after doing this exercise. In theory, you could keep them closed for the same period and work, at that time, on visualization, trying to review what you have just observed. Do not ever rub them with your hands, not to irritate them. This exercise is very helpful, one of the best for those who want to learn how to hypnotize quickly and efficiently. Exercise 5 Make a great effort to read a page of a book every day without ever close your eyes. You will see the results already achieved with the previous exercise improving. Exercise 6 Another exercise you can do often and with many benefits is staring to an object at short distance, getting closer to it always staring, never lowering eyelids. In addition to its attractive effect, a nurtured gaze allows expressing different thoughts and feelings with an intensity that deeply impresses; in addition, the action of such a hypnotic gaze gives to whoever owns it a precious ascendancy. With the practice of fascination, you can perform a series of exercises very simple, also called “basic exercises". Here we will teach now some of those basic exercises, assuming the fixity already obtained. 1 ° in a living room, in the Church, theater, or any other meeting place, where several people are sitting one at the front of the other, gaze at the nape a person placed ahead of you at a distance of 2-3 meters concentrating all your energy on the idea of acting on her and make her turn, which will happen if the person is sensitive. You can also direct the action of the eyes on the two scapular or combine them into one point, for example on one of the first dorsal vertebrae. It is interesting to notice that very often the person will react immediately after your look. 2 ° make another attempt on the street, remaining two meters behind the chosen person. 3 ° with the second successful experience, you may want that person turning to the right or left. Formulating clearly in your mind the idea of left or right makes this purpose very easy. You can also do this by observing a group of people walking down the street and it is a very easy exercise. 4 ° on train, on tram, choose an individual seated facing to you whose place is appreciably to the right or left of that which is opposite. Simulate to normally occurs on words meaningful to the subject and at times when there is interchange conscious reasoning - unconscious mind. Even the ancients had noted the importance of the gaze, e.g. Isigonus, Aulus Gellius, Pliny, and bring attention to this element (fixe intueri).delle palpebre avvenga normalmente su parole significative per il soggetto ed in momenti in cui si ha interscambio ragionamento conscio-mente inconscia. Anche gli antichi avevano osservato l’importanza dello sguardo fisso, ad es. look straight, to give the impression that you do not see, but look at him sideways, directing to him with the stronger mental power you can, and say to yourself with all the energy you feel capable of, you want him to look in your direction. The chosen person will soon become restless, nervous, as if she was aware of a force that dominates her, and will end up looking on your side or even staring at you. 5 ° Get to the window and look at a person who comes towards you. If you fix it with sufficient energy expressing the will that raises her head and looks at you, it will almost invariably, obeying your mental recall. The experience can be done with the same process in backward conditions; namely, passing you set one person at a window. Two action elements come into the scene in this series of experiences: the magnetic power of gaze and the concentration of thought. When these experiences have succeeded once on two, you have conscience that you can dominate others and impose your will in large measure. Other experiments you can then try with the help of a friend or an ordinary person. Suppose that you want to obtain from him a service or an object from which he does not want to part from. You will focus your thoughts on the idea that he must deliver this object, without having him to suspect what action you want to exercise. You will place yourself in front of him talking about the satisfaction you would feel if you had the object even only for a few minutes, you stare to the subject of the experiment with sweetness and persistence, like to let his brain absorb the idea of handing over the object. If the penetration of the gaze is sufficiently developed, and if thought concentration is quite large, you will quickly notice that every word has, on the subject, a physical effect that goes straight to the point you want to reach. The interlocutor, who does not take long to be more or less completely subjugated, abdicates the throne and ends up giving the object that you want. Here there is evidently a beginning of hypnotizing. Until you hold someone under your eyes, you greatly diminish more and more the strength of his judgment and his will. Dealing in a convenient manner this principle, for example during a long interview, it is sure you will deeply disturb the interlocutor. Remember that what you said, by making use of the central gaze (namely the root of the nose, between the two eyes) would remain encrusted in his memory. With the mastery of the exercise, you are able to penetrate deeply into the subconscious of the subject. Your words may also have not had on time a success in accordance with your wishes, but they will continue to occupy the spirit of the subject. If you want to avoid to be affected yourself by the ascendant of a person you are talking with, stop your central gaze as soon as he takes the word, lead it above or below his eyes, but not in the eyes. It takes a long practice to preserve the full integrity of judgment in front of a person who will stare at your eyes. When, in company, you will put for some seconds an indifferent but firm and supported gaze on someone, mentally expressing the desire that this guy feels impelled to seek you, you will create in him this desire. Develop Presence for yourself As much as possible in everyday life, try “to be there for yourself". When you really understand this concept, you will realize how crucial it is. It is the absolute key. The exercises that we present here for presence are: 1) Exercise of the point of standing; to maintain for as long as possible 2) Exercise of "three times ten minutes", to create a space for the presence 3) More useful exercises When to perform the recommended exercises? None of these exercises will actually steal your time, since you will perform them contemporarily to your daily activities. In particular, the exercise of the point of standing and "three times ten minutes" they must be performed as often as possible. Basic concepts The presence is a status of natural conscience, an enlarged perception compared to our concept of consciousness. It can also be defined as a status of "reintegration". Gurdjieff, many ancient alchemists, wise oriental Taoists, those who practice Yoga, and all of the esoteric traditions of all continents, they gather at the Summit on the concept of presence. Reintegration and Presence The presence is a gift essential to strengthen your fascinative force. Virtually, we do not leave anything out of us. In the practice, the first step is to develop the "know that we are there." If we are "present”, we are energetically denser in the situation. To develop such a gift, we have "to want” to become increasingly conscious of ourselves. We have to be "in things", not to live our life in our thoughts. "While the Id begins to consider itself, they mildly fall, one by one, all the barriers that previously "being unaware of itself ", prevented it to admire the perfect inner harmony, until He can see itself in its fullness”. If we want to fascinate we must learn to be outside of our mental thoughts and conceptualizations of the average person. Exercise 7 Create a fixed point. Try to pay attention mentally to the exact feeling in your right hand, then the left, then right foot, then left. Do the same with knees, elbows, ears, fingers, etc. During the day, you can extend the exercise, remaining always conscious of a part of yourself. Note. -To grasp the exact sensation, the student has to focus his thought on the point indicated, without letting the mind wander. The properly performed concentration, will give a sensation that the student will easily be able to recognize; sometimes is a stinging, other times a light impact or the impression that blood is heading to the designated point. You can also put a finger on any point, and insistently focus the thought on the touched point. Exercise 62 Light – in "The mirrors" – Ignis – p. 262 Is the same action of attention, but in motion. As you walk, talk, keep a fixed reference point in yourself. Better a peripheral point. Take consciousness for example of your hand, your foot. This exercise will help to separate gradually the perception of the body from your emotional and to acquire greater consciousness. Experimentally we observe that, constantly operating and maintaining awareness of the body, first it take place a rebalancing and realignment due to the abandonment of unnecessary tensions; and is a feeling of energy too. After a little, we pass to a further stadium. Continuing in the work of the body consciousness we will even leave useless identifications (which are "mental activities", mental projections of the body) coming to a perception of it as "not expressible verbally." The body is something real and is no longer an "Id". The rule of "three times ten minutes" Since one "falls asleep" too easily, decide to be present for yourself three times for ten minutes every day.