Develop Presence for yourself As much as possible in everyday life, try “to be there for yourself". When you really understand this concept, you will realize how crucial it is. It is the absolute key. The exercises that we present here for presence are: 1) Exercise of the point of standing; to maintain for as long as possible 2) Exercise of "three times ten minutes", to create a space for the presence 3) More useful exercises When to perform the recommended exercises? None of these exercises will actually steal your time, since you will perform them contemporarily to your daily activities. In particular, the exercise of the point of standing and "three times ten minutes" they must be performed as often as possible. Basic concepts The presence is a status of natural conscience, an enlarged perception compared to our concept of consciousness. It can also be defined as a status of "reintegration". Gurdjieff, many ancient alchemists, wise oriental Taoists, those who practice Yoga, and all of the esoteric traditions of all continents, they gather at the Summit on the concept of presence. Reintegration and Presence The presence is a gift essential to strengthen your fascinative force. Virtually, we do not leave anything out of us. In the practice, the first step is to develop the "know that we are there." If we are "present”, we are energetically denser in the situation. To develop such a gift, we have "to want” to become increasingly conscious of ourselves. We have to be "in things", not to live our life in our thoughts. "While the Id begins to consider itself, they mildly fall, one by one, all the barriers that previously "being unaware of itself ", prevented it to admire the perfect inner harmony, until He can see itself in its fullness”. If we want to fascinate we must learn to be outside of our mental thoughts and conceptualizations of the average person. Exercise 7 Create a fixed point. Try to pay attention mentally to the exact feeling in your right hand, then the left, then right foot, then left. Do the same with knees, elbows, ears, fingers, etc. During the day, you can extend the exercise, remaining always conscious of a part of yourself. Note. -To grasp the exact sensation, the student has to focus his thought on the point indicated, without letting the mind wander. The properly performed concentration, will give a sensation that the student will easily be able to recognize; sometimes is a stinging, other times a light impact or the impression that blood is heading to the designated point. You can also put a finger on any point, and insistently focus the thought on the touched point. Exercise 62 Light – in "The mirrors" – Ignis – p. 262 Is the same action of attention, but in motion. As you walk, talk, keep a fixed reference point in yourself. Better a peripheral point. Take consciousness for example of your hand, your foot. This exercise will help to separate gradually the perception of the body from your emotional and to acquire greater consciousness. Experimentally we observe that, constantly operating and maintaining awareness of the body, first it take place a rebalancing and realignment due to the abandonment of unnecessary tensions; and is a feeling of energy too. After a little, we pass to a further stadium. Continuing in the work of the body consciousness we will even leave useless identifications (which are "mental activities", mental projections of the body) coming to a perception of it as "not expressible verbally." The body is something real and is no longer an "Id". The rule of "three times ten minutes" Since one "falls asleep" too easily, decide to be present for yourself three times for ten minutes every day. You have to hear, see, and be into reality at the highest level. Other exercises All the exercises that follow now will have a short duration at the beginning; the unexercised could not hope for a too long presence in themselves. We must here clarify what we intend for exercise perfectly performed. An exercise is perfectly executed until in the brain there is no break in the continuity of attention. It is therefore obvious that we cannot perform well the exercise and worry if the exercise is well executed at the same time. The same moment mind asks this question, the exercise is finished. Therefore, the question “Do I have performed well this year?" will always be related to an exercise already accomplished, could not be more than merely retrospective. So while you work, think to the exercise, not to “the performance of the exercise”. Please consider this sentence, because the secret of success is wrapped in it. Memento. – Do not get exhausted in an effort to unduly prolong an exercise. At the beginning, when an exercise has been perfectly executed for a very short time, you can call yourself satisfied. Rather than prolong the duration for that day, you shall switch to a different exercise. Exercise 8 – arm folding Bend the arm on itself to touch the shoulder with your hand. Execute the movement slowly, controlling it, namely placing your attention on what you are doing and without any external thought. A similar exercise is well performed only when the mind does not distract, not even a moment. The brain must give sufficient impetus to the movement; attention has to follow this movement until the end. When you have learned to perform well in this exercise, practice it progressively for 2, 3, 4, 5 times. Alternate arms; perform the same by bending the leg on the thigh. Exercise 9 - The finger. Sit comfortably, one hand on the knee, keeping it closed except the middle finger that you will lengthen in the direction of the thigh. Raise and lower the finger slowly for 10, 15, 20 times. The exercise consists in not letting your attention ever detach from the swinging finger, this for longer each time. Exercise 10 - The funnel. Sitting, place in front of you an empty bottle in which you will introduce a glass funnel. In the bottom of the funnel place some cotton wool, then fill the funnel with water. The water then will descend slowly in the bottle filtering through the cotton. The exercise consists in sticking your attention to the decreasing level of liquid. You do not have to distract. During the exercise the pupils must remain constantly fixed on the liquid’s level, resisting the invitation of the eyelids that would like to close. If you find that in the meantime, you diverted your attention, or if the pupils come off even for an instant from the liquid, the exercise has failed and everything is to be done again. If you do not have a glass funnel, observe instead of the decreasing level in the funnel, the increasing level into the bottle. Later you will resume the exercise complicating it, straining not to hear the noise of the liquid going down. (See further, exercises of elimination). Exercise 11 Necklace. Get amber or glasses necklaces, whose grains can scroll at pleasure on the thread holding them. The exercise is to count necklace’s grains without thinking of anything else. Begin to count a few, and then gradually increase the number. The Indians, to whom this exercise is familiar, not infrequently count many thousands of grains not minding about what is happening around them and without diverting mind on other thoughts. In the absence of a necklace, you can practice to count, in the manner above described, dried beans, hazelnuts, etc. Exercise 12. Thumbs. Sit, cross your fingers and start shooting right thumb on the left with isochronous. The exercise consists in keep your mind focused on what you are doing without ever diverting it. Gradually prolong the duration of the exercise. Exercise 13. Fists closed. Sit; put closed fists on the table. Then open a finger at a time really slowly, giving attention on the motion of your finger. Open one after the other the fingers of a hand first, then the fingers of the other hand; then the homonymous fingers of both hands: e.g. the two indices, the two medium, the two rings, etc. We repeat again: in this, as in all others, the exercise is not to make the movement indicated, but forcing thought to follow the movement without any interruption whatsoever, in order to train the mind to an increasingly long concentration on a particular subject. Exercise 14. Clapping. Beat the palms against each other rhythmically during an increasingly long time; or counting the number of times. The mind has meanwhile to think only to that movement performed by your hands. Exercise 15. Steps. Walk regularly for five steps, providing you have in your brain the feel that you move forward the right foot, then the left. Having managed this exercise, make an effort to have (always in the brain) the exact sensation of entire leg, going forward, and later even the feeling of the whole body that moves. Exercise 16. Touch. Take any object: e.g. a pencil, a paper holder, a watch. The exercise consists in determining mentally the exact sensation the object gives to your touch: its shape, the feeling of weight or heat, du-safety, etc.