Imagine how much did his astonishment escalate when he realized that such hens used to climb over a branch, while underneath, on the ground, a fox used to look at them and wave its head in the process. It appears as if, on their own initiative, the hens would then throw themselves underneath, where they would be devoured by the fox. Fascination is also the historical basis of the classical “give me your eyes, please” of the hypnotizers of yesteryear. Though such a personage is still alive in popular perceptions, he has effectively become extinct by now, given that the techniques of hypnosis which are currently utilized on a preponderant basis are both lengthy and based on the use of words. They mostly derive from a practice strand of American origin which is disconnected from the ancient tradition 9. No one among present-day professional hypnotists, not even among the most celebrious ones, is really capable of making use of the look. Nevertheless, look might, if and when it is understood, function as a valuable aid to any hypnotic influence, due to the fact that it engenders by itself a suspension of certain critical faculties, and does so in a totally natural manner. Summary of the methods of utilization of the technique 1. In everyday life and in the sphere or relationships: The reason why a certain person makes an impact on us, and seems to us “alive”, lies in the self-confident mastery exuded by a look which seduces, attracts, enchants. Our eye can be educated in this respect and guided to the attainment of those effects. 2. Within the therapeutic field: Since ancient times, healing power has been attributed to the look. Both Hippocrates 10 and Dioscorides 11, as well as Theophrastus 12, forcefully maintain that healing power could be exercised through the look, gestures and specific rituals. Our own master Erminio from Pisa 13, therefore, perpetuated such tradition by causing the instant healing of pains of the muscles and the skeleton, tinnitus, and several other disorders. A theory that might provide justification for such results is the one set out here under: The mind is sometimes caught in the grips of what is usually referred to as «fixed ideas». We keep on thinking the same things, and we let ourselves be constantly chased by the phantom of old thoughts and go round and round the same set of concepts. The charming attraction of the look, therefore, smashes such deeply engrained ideas. It is as if through the means of fascination, moreover, we succeeded in “entering the other person”. Every person’s world is fenced off by a limiting boundary consisting in the narrow space of what his sight encompasses and reaches up to. Accordingly, by meeting such person’s look we simultaneously penetrate inside the interpersonal reality of our interlocutor, and we are then able to help him “from within”. Even the phase of concentration and meditation techniques that one passes through with the aim of strengthening the eye contains within itself a practical usefulness in the field of personality reinforcement. 3. Within the arena of personal growth: We must possess awareness of the look. The exercises that are utilized for the sake of fascination might additionally prove to be of great avail if one seeks to acquire a clearer, neater and more magnetic personality, as well as to attain greater "Presence". 4. To induce a «hypnotic trance» in a natural way. Fascination might represent the key to develop a specific form of instant hypnosis. Besides, all hypnotic techniques are speeded up by prior recourse to the use of fascination. Fascination in the relationship between the two sexes Fascination is also a fundamental component of the forms which the relationship between man and woman take. What is it that, ultimately, makes a man distinguish a woman from thousands of unknown members of her sex who cross his way in the streets? Why is it that this man who, notwithstanding the fact that he has witnessed countless eyes staring at his, directs his look only to these particular eyes? It was but a flash, and yet that flash has unveiled to him an ocean of happiness and mystery. The relevant man, spellbound and enraptured, is forced to retrace his steps so as to meet again that look which has made his restless, which has unleashed into his soul a storm that is unable to subside unless he can again look out from the thresholds of this divine enigma. The reverse is likewise true: Man, with his look, captivates the woman, gazes at her, and she, in turn, lowers her gaze in order to attract him 14. The modern world is saturated with a plethora of social conventions, and no one can really attempt to make a loud confession of the feelings that are dearest to his heart, or give voice to the aspirations buried in his innermost being. Even though a person might wish to love and be loved, he can often do nothing other than reconciling himself to a state of wait. There is, however, a magical tool of communication, a hidden accomplice: The look, the silent lamp in one’s eyes. The eye caresses, the eye invites, the eye promises, exasperates desire and vanity, and is capable of throwing one into despair or suddenly thrusting one back to the pinnacle of human joy. Through the look, we communicate ourselves and our idiosyncractic reality. It is in our look that the person facing us discerns the truth of who we are and where we are heading for. Eye in the Tradition The eye has always been at the heart of human culture, transmuted into a symbol, at the center of ritual ceremonies, and a protagonist in metaphors. It is the most precious sensory organ in the human body: It allows us to become aware of the surrounding environment, and assists us in creating the three-dimensional perception of space. The eye has been perennially linked to “knowledge”, owning the world and dominating it. The eye is, moreover, the sensory organ that is most closely related to light, which is an element that is fundamental to life 15. The eye is an essential organ of man, both as regards his life and his distinct individuality. We can discern both the following in the traditions that relate to this organ: • An attention that is extended to each one of the two eyes, which are related to pairs of opposite principles (sun and moon, male and female, etc); • An attention which is focused on the point between the two eyes, seen as a central locus and as the point in which intuitive faculties might be developed. In the practice of fascination through the look, both these elements are of significance, due to the fact that the median point between the eyes is one of the points which were traditionally used in order to observe this point itself. We are now going to pay notice to how we are capable of coming across these very same elements in different civilizations. According to the ancient Egyptians, for instance, the eye of Horus might be both the right eye and the left eye. Traditionally, the right eye is linked to the sun, while the left one is connected to the moon 16. In the East, Shiva is often depicted with three eyes: Two such eyes, which correspond to the sun and the moon, are directed towards the outside world, towards the things, which accordingly seem to exist in a state of “duality”. There is yet a third eye, centrally located, a unifying eye which faces a different dimension, one of self-consciousnes and self-intuition, which is symbolized by a spiral in the drawing set out here under. From an anatomical point of view, we can notice how in man the location of the right eye and the left eye corresponds to the two hemispheres of the brain, and are often related to rational value (linked to the masculine principle) and emotional value (which is more feminine). The eye in the middle or third eye, therefore, is neither masculine nor feminine. At a physiological level, this point corresponds to the epiphysis, which is where the pineal gland regulating man’s day / night cycle, and which secretes melatonin, is situated. Such pineal gland has a relation with intuition. The eye lying on the median point between sun and moon might bring to mind the importance of a higher vision and the possibility of attaining thereby a superior vision. A concept which is shared by plentiful traditions is “the reawakening by the third eye”, which signifies an opening that gradually leads to an amplification of consciousness. A link might be established between such phenomenology and factors which are both physiological and purely connected to percepton. A French researcher, Dr. Lefebure 17, used to observe the fact that this central point of the “third eye” corresponded to a certain physiological position where the normal three-dimensional vision was suspended. In theory, we could then simultaneously discern an object placed on that point from every side. Dr. Lefebure’s hypothesis was that such a suspension of the ordinary mode of perception might have a significant impact on the brain, by steering it “beyond space”. According to many traditions, such a third eye is also portrayed as being contained inside a triangle which functions as a symbol of fire as well. Fire is in fact the element endowed with the highest level of vibration 18. This link between the triangle and the eye is similarly present, in Europe, in both medieval and renaissance iconography, in terms of which the eye, often inserted within a triangle, was after all seen as an explicit image of the trinity. We find a similar symbolism in the East, where Buddha (often called "the eye of the world") is represented in the form of a triangle known as Tiratna or threefold gem. It is important to understand that such an intuitive center or third eye, though already quite present as perceptive centre in man, and recognized by for instance the Indians as ajna chakra, is nevertheless in a state of slumber in most cases. Being in a stage of embryonic development, it has to be fashioned through development and opening itself up in consonance with the appropriate rhythm, which varies from person to person. Our own interpretation is that, essentially speaking, it is as if this physiological point was “occupied”, at least physiologically, by the task of delineating a specific identity and mental constitution, engaged, that is, by the conceptualizations which engross the mind, and by the dualistic vision of the world. It is only when this type of “mental block” is released, that intuition is able to wake up again and be harmoniously reactivated, thereby enabling a correct development of consciousness. In this connection, we can observe the fact the various hypnotic pratices 19 resort to the method of touching that area, due to its capacity of facilitating the task of letting go of oneself and precipitating into a state of hypnosis, as the process is in fact disturbed in that manner. The full reawakening on the part of the third eye is connected to a development of one’s consciousness that is achieved over a period of time, as the consequential fruit of individual effort and working on oneself. The more one progresses in the practice of fascination, the more one can discern a greater sensibility in that area. Finally, as far as the level at which the eye operates is concerned, the Kabbalists are of the view that it acts on an ethereal plane, “the universally shared book, where all the instances of man’s conduct are recorded in writing, namely, the ether. In it, all the units of human behaviour are inscribed, including the look of the eyes, or whatever nice or evil is said” 20. It is odd that this theory antedates the more recent one of Rupert Sheldrake (1998-1999-2000) that concerns “morphic fields”, i.e. the theory of resonance fields which are not directly perceptible but which have a tendency to “thrust” forms into a particular direction 21. In terms of an ancient Egyptian legend, the sun and the moon were the eyes of a large divinity, Hor-jerti, i.e. “Horus of the two eyes”. This pair of eyes is similarly linked to two snakes as part of a tradition reminiscent of the Indian tradition which is included in the kundalini, and in accordance with which ida and pingala are the names of the two lateral channels around the sushunna. This tradition about the two lateral parts of the body sill goes on even in the fascination school of Virgilio T., as it confers special importance on the two hemispheres. Exercises to develop the "Fascinative Force" Since the eye is critical to fascinate, the development of ocular’s power is important. Nevertheless, the physicality of this organ is only a part of the whole. Actually, the eye transmits our personality, and afterwards, combined with it, there are other skills to develop, including a fundamental quality called personal magnetism. Let us examine closely an individual who possesses these qualities. 1. His appearance is harmonic. The magnetic individual is often noted at first glance. The concept is that of "personal charm". It does not matter the person is either handsome or ugly: his figure always releases a pleasant impression. His defects do not affect the view proportionally to their importance: on the contrary, what he has best is strangely striking in. In other words, you will see merits, not defects. His eyes have a brightness that gently fascinates. His voice seduces the ear. His attitude is both, sober and natural. 2. He seems to permeate the environment of a penetrating radiation. His presence seems to generate in those who approaches an odd sensation of well-being, a real inner pleasure. With him, the spirit seems to become lighter. The exact word to describe the status is "eurhythmy". In fact, a eurhythmy infinitely sweet is conquering and subduing you, leaving to you a lasting memory.