This heat is your energy. Now you can imagine to be opening a door. At this point, you see a white light around you and watch the image change Note – eliminate the eventual headache The previous exercise could leave a slight feeling of a headache. You can easily eliminate headaches resulting from this exercise by placing one hand on the heart and the other on the forehead. Then remove your hand from the forehead and put it on the back of the neck, this eliminates the sensation Exercise 23 -aura You can use the same technique to see what it is called "aura". Relax and inwardly head towards seeing the aura of the subject. Breathe in slowly. Look through or around the subject. When you defocus an outline light appears. HEARING The inner sound Cover your ears. You will feel like a mumble. It is blood passing close to your auditory cells. Keep attention to this noise. Try to listen in a quiet environment even without covering your ears and remaining present. Then try to expand your perception until you can capture it as often as possible. Exercises for hemispheres and the awakening of the central fire The purpose of exercises that follow is the awakening of your central fire. When to perform them? They have to be performed until this new status will be fixed in you. After, you may continue them at will, as you will notice they develop your ultimate energy and are always of benefit. Basic Concepts To develop fascination is also essential to handle the energies of the spinal column, the central canal of the Caduceus Western Hermetic, the Indians’ Kundalini. Indeed, in the spine, they meet symbolically three ducts called Sympathetic, Vagus and Central corresponding to those Yogi calls Ida, Pingala and Sushunna. Ida and Pingala are the left and right side respectively. When their energies meet then you can develop the core energy. Under other latitudes, the concept expresses in all systems, for example in the cabal, we have a central pillar and two side pillars. If we look at this from a neurological point of view, we may think that the liberation of the core energy is tied to a particular interaction between the two halves of the body, each corresponding to a cerebral hemisphere. The man is in fact, except for some organs, completely symmetrical, and the most recent neurological studies coincide in fact to observe that in humans there are two hemispheres each one with its own specialization. Virtually it is as if we had two brains to govern our body. For the development of inner power one has to ensure that these operate in a consistent manner. In order to have this happen, primarily the spine must be aligned. Since this concept is linked also to the vertical, to the meeting between Earth and sky, expressing us symbolically, it also follows that more a person is, as they say with modern term "grounded", with her feet on the ground, the more can be a fascinator. Let us start with some simples Exercise 24: grounding. Bring attention to your vertical and the weight of your body to Earth. Continue in this attention, marching. 25: body flexibility Exercise Another very valuable exercise to maintain the elasticity of the torso is to put hands on the hips, and turn body from right to left. In this way, we avoid tensions that could block the energy. Exercise 26: head They also rotate their heads from right to left. It is indeed up to the neck, which often create tension which can block the energy. Even more effective is the rotation is made before bringing back the head. Exercise: 27. Resume exercises of presence indicated previously In our book, Mesmerismus and "Trance" there are many exercises are useful for this purpose. At this point, we are ready for the "exercises for hemispheres" that are symbolically linked to polarities in humans. Probably a school of this type, connected with the development of the power of gaze, is probably present in Italy even since pre-Roman eras, which would explain how there are still many people who know and practice this technique. The Etruscans had in fact represented the eye on many everyday objects. Moreover, their winged deity in the symbology below implies the same concepts of the exercise that we will be presenting shortly. In it, we may see how the power of breathing (represented by the wing, which is the element of air) relates to the eye. At the same time we see clearly how this is a force, represented by the sword. The two aquatic tails show clearly the dual aspect behind this energy. Since tails belong in their form, to the aqueous element, symbol in its entirety (though we do not have evidence of the matter) may easily represent the exercise that follows: from the meeting of two different aqueous energies and the energy of breathing you extract the power (represented by the sword). To do this you must work at both physical and energetic level. Dominate polarities with the hot water/cold water exercise To develop the basic energy we must therefore be able to overcome polarities. Polarities are also expressions of a dualistic vision of the world, a product of our mind and our ego that has learned to interpret the sensory data according to pre-established patterns. How many people complain constantly! Being influenced by world distinctions, beautiful/ugly, pleasant/unpleasant etc… this means virtually to live in a reality built from the outside and based on the concepts. The magnetic man builds instead his world and his reality. Moreover, the first point where we must surpass us is in ourselves. We must be able to build our world and live our reality. A way to access each symbol is represented by the sensorial experience. A major exercise called "hot water and cold water". It consists in Dennis, Etruria, vol. ii. p. 160 This exercise is among the first, if not the first in the tradition of Virgilio t. modify perceptions, to reverse the physical polarity of perception of the water element. This exercise works physiologically to hemispheric level, since each hand is tied to a different hemisphere. When we operate at the same time on two hands then we arrive at a new and higher sense of unity. Exercise 28: Hot water and cold water. 1) Put a basin with cold water to the right 2) Put a basin with hot water to the left 3) Put a hand in the basin of cold water and a hand in warm water basin and at the same time try to reverse the perceptions. Some will totally. Others will only partly. Anyway, make the maximum effort and act without using the imagination (so you do not have e.g. to imagine ice) but the willpower only. Note, it could seem it was you heating the water. Then you will see that you actually have achieved control over your perceptions. Exercise 29: With breathing Perform the same exercise again, but holding breath The exercise has a strong symbolic value. The first symbol of the exercise: the non conditioning With this exercise our being is no more influenced from temperatures of "waters" (symbolized by an arrow that goes down ? ). The second symbol of the exercise: the upper dimension With this exercise, you log on to an aerial dimension that is no longer tied to "land" (symbol ? ). The tradition symbolized this dimension by an early development of mercury (symbol r). Namely we are at a point where the polarities meet and can be controlled. Process The first phase of the awakening of the serpent power (namely basic energy, symbolized by the symbol of Aries A, serpentine energy linked to the deeper layers of our mind). It occurs only when "our Center will know how to move into the fluidic body and will be detached from primary senses and isolated, as a result, from the physical world". Indeed, to perform the exercise, you shall develop a new status in yourself, detached from physical senses. Then the fire of consciousness D can afford to project the energy. This projection may be accompanied by a specific sound (mantra). You are awakening magnetism. This will be fixed later by subsequent repetitions of the exercise and its evocation through memory, even without water. Physically and symbolically. The use of the symbol in our tradition coincides with a reality. The second is the projection of the force in itself. Abraxa – Ur and Krur Breathing to dominate the polarities Our breathing, without we notice it, passes alternately from one nostril to the other. The researcher Ernest Rossi observed that this alternation of rhythms follows specific rhythms and matches the different activation of the two cerebral hemispheres. Symbolically, the right nostril is linked to activity, while the left to passivity. A balancing exercise is alternating breathing in, namely the inhale with one nostril and exhale with the other. 81: breathing exercise. 1) Inhale right while holding (closing) the left nostril and fill the lungs 1) Exhale left holding (closing) the right nostril. 2) Re-inhale to the left keeping closed the right nostril 3) Exhale right while closing the left nostril 4) Keep on doing it You can add a particular respiratory rhythm in the exercise above, or run it just as well. Presence to head sides with the two seconds’ rhythm Be aware of the right side of the head, and then of the left one. Continue alternating for a short time. Follow with presence at the front of the head and the back of the head. Continue with the top of the head and the bottom. As you develop a stronger Central, you will feel increasingly centered on you. The rate shall be the following: a second to right and a second to left, repeating for some times, then a second ahead and a second back, repeating for several times too, and similarly for top and bottom.