At this point, the practitioner asks to gain strength with a particular language, where through a series of transformations based on Numerology, converting words into numbers so, for example, “five give me eight” is the numerological transformation of “Virgilio give me magnetism”. You can use the same Numerology to create your own "keyword" to unleash the force. Bishoff Method In addition to focusing on the eyes of a picture pronouncing ciphers, another technique handed down by Bishoff and others consists in the observation of a drawn eye. First, you must pay attention fixedly to the central point. Then have to expand your gaze to the global outline of the eye, returning finally to the central point. And, mentioned by various schools of personal magnetism, see for example Apollonius "Manuel express de magnétisme personnel". The manual contains many handy exercises designed to increase the magnetic force through specific symbols. The tradition of using numbers for fascination seems to have ancient origin. In an article entitled "Walks in Calabria", Caterina Pignorini-Boers, tells of seeing into a home a horseshoe, two horns, and two numbers (fatal numbers) 8 and 9 to keep away the jinx. Then she asked "why?” The elderly woman said "against the jinks" ("Pel fora fascino, signorina"). And what is it a jinks? "Ah," said the elderly woman: " eight nine, nine eight!" But why use eight and nine? "Excellence witches say six and seven." (New Anthology – Roma – 1883 – p. 71 – p. 280) The Virgil T. method consists in the numerological sum of the letters of name, surname and date of birth. To this sum, you count also foreign letters. Then you reduce the result to a single cipher, except in the case that you have 11 or 22 (among other things 22 is the number of Cabala letters). After that, you create a phrase or a word with this number of letters. Other designs and Traditions based on symbols In addition to traditions of safe source, we refer now to some ancient drawings we received that could probably have the same goal of strengthening the eye power, which initiates to the technique can still use in this direction. Particularly significant is the image above (Kings-Gnostics, p. 238) where the attributes for each day of the week surround the eye, in the form of the deity who presides over each of them. These deities are symbolized by the Lion for the Dies Solis (Sunday), the Fawn for Dies Lunae (Monday - Diana Venatrix), the Scorpion for Dies Martis (Tuesday), the Dog for Dies Mercurii. The Thunderbolt appears to be the symbol of God Jupiter, and the Owl (sacred to Athena and Minerva) must have been inserted as a symbol of the Goddess Venus, since Venus is not considered as a protector towards fascination, while Minerva was always a patron deity and carried on her shield Medusa’s head. The serpent was a symbol of Hecate, one of the attributes of Diana Triformis and considered one of hers most powerful antidotes. Here we assume that the symbol was adopted as applicable to Dies Saturnii (226). Similarly, in this ancient gem the eye appears surrounded by four symbols that can refer to elements and in any case to highest deities. Observing this amulet, we think it was of Gnostic nature, and its origin was a Greek-Egyptian, although created subsequently. Then each symbol has to be interpreted as Egyptian from the Greek point of view. As we know from Pliny (note 227) there were not deer in Africa, it is clear that whoever created this amulet must have denoted with the deer a deity of the Greek-Roman mythology; and we must therefore ask ourselves which prototype existed in Egypt whose attributes were the same of Diana of Ephesus. This may not be other than Hathor, Goddess of Moon (228). And the thunderbolt can represent Serapis, a Sun God. Therefore, each of the symbols represented solves as the Sun or the Moon. Is a sculpted Onyx (223) by Gerhard's collection, with a central eye and at sides the head of Serapis, the Eagle, the Thunderbolt, and the Dolphin. These can easily relate to the four elements: Thunderbolt to fire, Dolphin to water, Eagle to air, and the head of Serapis to Earth. Some researchers interpret these ancient gems as amulets, but this attribution is not the only possible: there is no doubt that they can also be used as a Mandala to strengthen fascinating power by who knows the methodology and how to interpret the symbols. To operate in such a way the focusing, as in the Bishoff methodology, must perform first on the eye, extending then the look at the symbols viewed with peripheral side vision and eventually returning to the eye. Exteriorizing: The Psychic Projection. It is possible to irradiate magnetism even at distance. These three methods of ancient origin have for common base the "retirement in silence”. That means the student has to retire into a room where cannot be disturbed nor hear any noise. Must be sitting or lying down, but at ease, and get about ten minutes during a State of absolute passivity. The muscles should be relaxed, the thought quiet. First Method The first method is the mental picture. When you are in a status of calmness described above, sit down at a table and write very readably on a white sheet of paper a succinct phrase expressing a desire whatsoever. Write for example "I want to cease the disagreements I have with the guy"; or “I want Mr. X forced to do this or that other thing." After writing what you want, readably and briefly, set yourself at ease and focus on your script, concentrating the thought with intensity, but calmly, on the meaning of the lines you have on sight. Breathe deeply and slowly. The procedure just described bases on the theory that by this means you get to produce in a perfect way some mental streams in full strength. Another explanation could come by considering the quantum nature of reality, or by the principle of synchronicity stated the first time by Carl Gustav Jung. Those who finally want to adopt a fully psychological point of view may think that it works because we create a "matrix" in our unconscious mind that tends to facilitate the occurrence of certain events. If you at first express simple and reasonable wishes as to enjoy better health, mental abilities, a sweeter character, you will probably succeed immediately. Insofar as you exercise, you can do more precise and detailed questions, such as those that we have mentioned. Until you will not ask for something harmful, either directly or indirectly, for the rights and happiness of your neighbor, you will get a measure of success based on the sincerity and intelligence you will show following this procedure. Second Method The second method is that of solar plexus. The solar plexus is the large central nerve of the spinal cord, behind the stomach hollow. Some scientists claim that the solar plexus is a brain — the abdominal brain — and that has an influence not only on body functions like breathing and heartbeat, but also on the emotional nature of the individual. The solar plexus is a true magnetic center, as a neuro-magnet capable of influencing others personality or be influenced by it. Here is how to proceed. After you collect your thoughts and place yourself in the passivity already explained, lay down on a bed, after having taken the precaution of removing all the blankets that could be an obstacle to your movements. Hold your breath then, by making the chest to compress, air penetrates the abdomen and stretches it. Compressing then the abdomen, the chest fills if you also hold breathing. Each breathing, you must compress and stretch the chest and abdomen, each time, and quickly enough, for five times in a row. Then rest for 30 seconds and restart the exercise. Eventually after a new 30-second pause, restart for the third and last time. Thus, it is easy to see, you act directly on the solar plexus making him undergo an inner and stimulant massage through the action of adjacent organs. The mental side of this theory is that during the exercise you keep the desire to meet peacefully in the spirit, and that the stimulus given to the solar plexus or nerve battery produces rejection of the thought. This rejection takes place by vibrations that influence the organism, endowed with more or less responsiveness and receptiveness, of the persons concerned. Third Method The third method is the muscular method. Is an ancient secret method, very powerful. The underlying theory is that each force expressed by both, Intelligence and Spirit, Gravity, Electricity, Muscle Action, and so on, is of the same essence. These forces do not differ among themselves in the form they take to manifest itself. Based on this theory, the student, after retiring in silence, must remain completely straight and tense every muscle in his body, as rigidly as possible. We are therefore in the presence of a force created but not used. The spirit of the student is then brought fervently on the desire that must be satisfied. He wants with all his forces that this desire fulfills. He shall ensure, at the same time, the physical force-expression, namely the rigidity of tired muscles, turns into mental strength-expression. Matters that he keeps in his mind this idea: while the force escapes from his tired muscles, it withdraws from him in the mental form of his desire, and acts in this form on personality or conditions concerned. You can, to give an example, put into practice this exercise every morning, with thoughts like: -my business will be better — or — will live peacefully all day-or any other that you like or it is worthwhile. Persian scientist Ibn Sina says for example that some women have the power to fascinate not only with look, but also from afar with a simple thought. The art of conferring fascination on the eyes Let us now talk about the practical art of making eyes strong, attractive and regaled with charming attraction. This in fact represents the central phase of the method. As several elements need to be coordinated, this part of our work is divided into 3 sections: 1. Fixity of the look; 2. Rapidity of the look; 3. Expression of the look. It is recommended that our prescriptions should be scrupulously followed, as they will quickly lead you to a truly surprising result. In no other work than this text of ours are you in fact going to come across so many exercises with so much power at the same time. I. – FIXITY OF THE LOOK As we know very well, the capacity to maintain a fixed look is one of the main prerequisites of a proficient fascinator. In addition to developing the fixity of your look, these exercises will also gift you a resolutely decisively and potent will. Exercise 27 a While in front of a mirror, you should fix your gaze on the third eye without batting your eyelids. You should pursue this exercise gradually, until you can manage to extend its duration. Refer in this regard to the instructions applicable to the next exercise. INDEX Preface 3 The original sources of our interest in the subject 7 Fields of utilization of fascination 12 Fascination in the relationship between the two sexes 21 Eye in the Tradition 23 The art of conferring fascination on the eyes 31 I. – FIXITY OF THE LOOK 31 Where to learn more? 35 Where to learn more? Our school organizes periodically training in Mesmerism. We do both personal coaching as group training. We call our teaching “Mesmerismus ©”. We invite you to visit us and discover, from the source, this ancient technique. Come Learn real Hypnotism and Mesmerism in France! What we want to teach you is a large system which connects the inner preparation of the hypnotists and mesmerist to inner rejuvenation techniques that work for strengthening the character.