Rather than prolong the duration for that day, you shall switch to a different exercise. Exercise 8 – arm folding Bend the arm on itself to touch the shoulder with your hand. Execute the movement slowly, controlling it, namely placing your attention on what you are doing and without any external thought. A similar exercise is well performed only when the mind does not distract, not even a moment. The brain must give sufficient impetus to the movement; attention has to follow this movement until the end. When you have learned to perform well in this exercise, practice it progressively for 2, 3, 4, 5 times. Alternate arms; perform the same by bending the leg on the thigh. Exercise 9 - The finger. Sit comfortably, one hand on the knee, keeping it closed except the middle finger that you will lengthen in the direction of the thigh. Raise and lower the finger slowly for 10, 15, 20 times. The exercise consists in not letting your attention ever detach from the swinging finger, this for longer each time. Exercise 10 - The funnel. Sitting, place in front of you an empty bottle in which you will introduce a glass funnel. In the bottom of the funnel place some cotton wool, then fill the funnel with water. The water then will descend slowly in the bottle filtering through the cotton. The exercise consists in sticking your attention to the decreasing level of liquid. You do not have to distract. During the exercise the pupils must remain constantly fixed on the liquid’s level, resisting the invitation of the eyelids that would like to close. If you find that in the meantime, you diverted your attention, or if the pupils come off even for an instant from the liquid, the exercise has failed and everything is to be done again. If you do not have a glass funnel, observe instead of the decreasing level in the funnel, the increasing level into the bottle. Later you will resume the exercise complicating it, straining not to hear the noise of the liquid going down. (See further, exercises of elimination). Exercise 11 Necklace. Get amber or glasses necklaces, whose grains can scroll at pleasure on the thread holding them. The exercise is to count necklace’s grains without thinking of anything else. Begin to count a few, and then gradually increase the number. The Indians, to whom this exercise is familiar, not infrequently count many thousands of grains not minding about what is happening around them and without diverting mind on other thoughts. In the absence of a necklace, you can practice to count, in the manner above described, dried beans, hazelnuts, etc. Exercise 12. Thumbs. Sit, cross your fingers and start shooting right thumb on the left with isochronous. The exercise consists in keep your mind focused on what you are doing without ever diverting it. Gradually prolong the duration of the exercise. Exercise 13. Fists closed. Sit; put closed fists on the table. Then open a finger at a time really slowly, giving attention on the motion of your finger. Open one after the other the fingers of a hand first, then the fingers of the other hand; then the homonymous fingers of both hands: e.g. the two indices, the two medium, the two rings, etc. We repeat again: in this, as in all others, the exercise is not to make the movement indicated, but forcing thought to follow the movement without any interruption whatsoever, in order to train the mind to an increasingly long concentration on a particular subject. Exercise 14. Clapping. Beat the palms against each other rhythmically during an increasingly long time; or counting the number of times. The mind has meanwhile to think only to that movement performed by your hands. Exercise 15. Steps. Walk regularly for five steps, providing you have in your brain the feel that you move forward the right foot, then the left. Having managed this exercise, make an effort to have (always in the brain) the exact sensation of entire leg, going forward, and later even the feeling of the whole body that moves. Exercise 16. Touch. Take any object: e.g. a pencil, a paper holder, a watch. The exercise consists in determining mentally the exact sensation the object gives to your touch: its shape, the feeling of weight or heat, du-safety, etc. To simplify the exercise begin to determine one at a time the feelings of the various qualities of the examined object; then you can reach (but only hardly, and after a long workout) the contemporary and comprehensive determination of all the sensations of touch. Exercise 5. The view. 1. Open and close rapidly, the buffet of your dining room and describe the number and quality of the objects that you have seen. 2. Pass quickly in front of a storefront and make inventory as above. Exercise 18. The hearing. Note: this exercise is not only an excellent training for concentration, but is also an excellent gym of the mind. Bring your attention exclusively on a chosen among many noises affecting your ear: e.g. the noise of the tram passing, the tick of a clock, etc. You have to concentrate to the point of not having in your mind anything else but the sensation of this noise: do not think to the tram or the clock, but the noise they make. The described exercises you must perform in the solitude of your room at the beginning. Then the student has to begin accustomed to do them in the midst of the people, amid the noise. In doing so he will increase the certainty of being able to concentrate where he wants and when he wants. Exercise 19 -Sleep and wake up. Remember a picture and then return to the present moment. Understand where the image and details is. In fact, in everyday life, when you lose the presence and retake it, it is normally for an image or a sound. With this exercise, virtually “we change world" Exercise 20 – the needle Take an ordinary pin, with black pinhead and let it run through the center of the page of a book. You can easily use any page of this book, but it will be better to use a book that you are not familiar with and even better if you never read it. Put the book away as usual to read extensively and focus at the pinhead. These done, try to see as many words as you can, close to pinhead, without moving even for an instant your eyes from the point above mentioned. At this moment, you will feel an almost irresistible desire to direct your gaze on the words themselves, but do not support it. Imprint in your mind the words as they appear and when you have sent to memory every word possible within the radius of your vision without moving the gaze, close your eyes quickly and write on a piece of paper the words memorized. Later you can check this list confronting it with the words on the page where the needle was plunged and if you do not match will be a sign that you were not be following exactly the prescriptive instructions and it would be good to repeat the exercise. In this case, it will be advisable to choose a different page. Exercise 21 – count without counting Watch a series of slats or vertical elements and without counting how many there are. This exercise does not interest as memory. As Virgil says: "when I see everything as a unity, I have more power". Therefore, virtually we need to count objects without counting. This technique leads our minds to work better, eliminates mental difference between "background" and "foreground" expressed in Gestalt terms, namely between part and whole. Further comments on the last two exercises Virtually the last two exercises above mentioned will help us to connect the "look" with the "watch". This is a typical attribute of a person who is present. Normally this man combines two elements: the watching, which is the act of observing giving attention, and the seeing, which is the act of global perception. The two moments can also be defined as the first and second attention. First attention: it stands on the particular, on the item. Second attention: it defines the so-called global attention that can reach up to the so-called Ganzfeld (in German, unique field) where there are no more contours. Watching attention focuses on the fovea and is linked to the process of thought and attention to closer elements. Seeing attention is then more global and connected to emotions. A complete and powerful vision combines the Jean Pierre de Giudicelli has taught us this exercise ability to see with that of watching because doing so also connects different brain areas. Exit peripherals Trances We often move eyes in various positions and without realizing it we enter into a trance. The phenomenon has been observed in PNL. The following exercise is useful to minimize this type of "trance." Infinity 1 Here is an exercise that seems easy, but it is very difficult to perform correctly. It is about tracking mentally without discontinuity and for a time growing the mathematical sign for infinity, similar to an 8 lying down. You can do it in the country or in open spaces.