Dr. Marco Paret Developing your Fascinative Force More Health and Well-Being ISBN13 978-0-935410-28-0 © 2011 – NLP International Ltd Preface “Can we not see that a stronger force is exercised by the human eyes which, through a mere look, almost bring about life or death, cause blood to flow away and come back, wrest away strength and restitute it, and, even more remarkably, corrupt the judgment of human minds?” (Sonnet by Lorenzo de’ Medici, known as “Il Magnifico” 1) Who would not like to prove attractive and to fascinate? To «fascinate» bears the connotation of “producing a spellbinding effect or enchanting through one’s look or speech”. The present book is devoted to the power of the eye and the secrets which are correlated to it. By means of this organ, in fact, astonishing results can be achieved. The influence exercised by man over another member of the species is no doubt the product of a multiplicity of causes, yet no one of those underlying causes is comparable, in terms of its potency, to the one possessed by the look. Our thought, too, is influenced by the look. The very phrase “vision of the world” is traceable back precisely to that reality. After all, even in the most mundane aspects of human life, we are accustomed to judge on the basis of the outward appearance. We create a certain opinion of one person firstly on the basis of his physiognomy and, secondly, on the basis of what dress he is wearing. For sure, speech helps fashion ideas and beliefs, but what happens when such action is not validated by one’s look? When one listens to a person without seeing him, the content of what he is saying is only understood by creating some mental images, imaginary mental images. Words gain in potency when they are backed up by the look. A proficient orator deliberately trains the way he looks at the audience in order to lend greater force and persuasive efficacy to his verbalizations. In the course of this book, we shall discover how such a force is susceptible of being developed by recourse to a self-disciplining method. Indeed, already when we limit ourselves to looking around without any specific purpose, even without any specific instructions, we are in fact communicating a myriad of different messages. If, however, we develop conscious awareness of what we do, we will manage to ultimately learn how to subjugate these energies possessed by the look. Indeed, in extreme circumstances, the ability we will have gained thereby is going to extend, in the sphere of interpersonal relationships, to the power to “enchant” whoever watches us, to create “an instantaneous hypnosis”; at the same time, from the viewpoint of the receptive side of looks, we will understand and perceive many more things than those we would otherwise regard as possible. The present work is the world’s most profoundly comprehensive text on this subject. It has its roots both in practical experience and in the attentive study of all the relevant literature we have been able to lay our hands on. We have accordingly referred, in the course of our footnotes, to hundreds of varied historical, scientific and experiential sources. An other result, one more closely connected to everyday life, is to learn to use the power of the eye so as to develop your Presence, Status, Prestige, Charm, Self-caring, Charisma, and Leadership, up to the point that you literally become capable oh hypnotizing and magnetizing whichever person is watching you. Attractive charm, according to the ancient way of looking at things, is in fact “a far-reaching power that is exercised by a look over another look, one charged with such a force that whoever was subjected to it was unable to extricate his self from it, and was accordingly compelled to be fascinated by it”. We are able, in this context, to record an age-long uninterrupted sequence, running across centuries, of witnesses’ first-hand descriptions of how such force would materialize. This ongoing chain of consistent records spans the medieval, Roman and pre-Roman ages without exception. The most recondite aspects of such tradition appear to have been incessantly transmitted in Italy more than in any other part of the world, though such transmission took place within the most exclusive elites of special affiliates. This ancient mode of looking at things has in fact always been practiced on the basis of a direct transmission from master to disciple, without resorting to written texts, other than, at the most, some allusive documents carrying meanings which were concealed from non-adepts, and odd systems of arcane symbols. In order to lend efficacy to this force, it is essential for us to develop awareness of the strength inherent in our look, as well as to develop a different vision. Though this is a practically orientated tradition, in order to understand and, even more, to put this art into practice, what is indeed required is an approach to reality which opens up to different and all-encompassing dimensions. They have to differ, in other words, from the linear and limited dimension of modern man. For modern man, the eye is a mere passive organ. If we, however, desire to appropriate the power inherent in the eye, we have to actively employ it and draw close to quantistic physics, which teaches us precisely that “the observer influences the observed”. In fascination we detect transformation, both the transformation of the one who actively inspires it and the one who is the passive recipient thereof. Fascination is additionally able to confer a scientific basis on the otherwise inexplicable thereapeutic ability possessed by several healers. The original sources of our interest in the subject Everything originated at first in our odd encounter with “the last of the fascinators”: Virgilio T. 2, who currently lives in a state of deliberate obscurity by the valleys of Piedmont. He appears to be the last custodian of one part of the secrets of this most ancient school. During a series of subsequent meetings, spread over a period in excess of twenty years, he has gradually introduced us to the strange and arcane power of the gaze, and has passed onto us increasingly more mysterious and secret exercises. The first one to meet him was actually a friend of mine, Max, who, having approached him in order to seek information on what hypnotism was, received a very practical reply to his inquiry. Virgilio T., who at that stage worked as a barber, asked those who were present at the barber’s shop whether they agreed to take part in an experiment. Once he received a positive reply to his said request, he closed the door of the shop and firmly fized his gaze on one of the customers, who had moreover assumed a somewhat defiant look. His defiant posturing only lasted for a very short period. Within a few seconds, in fact, that customer took on a livid appearance. Virgilio told him that the cigarette was bad. The customer thus addressed began to cough so much that Virgilio was forced to slap him in the face a few times in order to bring him back to his senses. When it came to the second customer, he did not even utter a single word to him. He fixed him closely, and this other customer’s look turned pallid and diaphanous as if it was made of wax. At that point, Virgilio carried out a facetious probative exercise: Faced with the question on what his name was, such customer answered by mentioning a woman’s name which had not even been verbally suggested (to him by Virgilio), only through the power of thought. Virgilio thereupon woke him up. Moved by his curiosity, Max took to Virgilio a number of his friends, and witnessed similar events on several other occasions. Even I succeeded in experiencing on my own skin the power of this seemingly quiet person who, besides the ability I have just described, had also developed a special sensitivity to energies, to such an extent that he was a capable medical diviner equipped with the talent to retrieve an object concealed inside a room. Where does all of this originate?