Max found out that Virgilio was working as a barber and went to see him. The shop was full of customers waiting to have their hair cut, so he waited until one customer got out of the barber’s chair when he approached Virgilio asking him could he tell him how hypnotism worked. He thought he might be able to make arrangements for them to meet in the future at another mutually convenient time. But he was in for a surprise because without saying a word to Max he turned to the waiting customers, asking them if they would agree to take part in a simple experiment he wanted to conduct. When they all agreed, although one of them did so rather reluctantly, he closed the shop door and fixed his gaze firmly upon the customer whose face showed he was far from happy at what was taking place; all he had was wanted was a haircut. But within seconds the customer’s obvious look of annoyance and defiance changed as Virgilio continued his fixed gaze and told him that the cigarette he was smoking tasted and smelled awful. The man then became doubled up in a paroxysm of coughing which was so violent Virgilio had to slap his face a number to bring him back to reality. If that was not enough he turned his gaze on another customer, and without saying a word the customer’s face became ashen and virtually diaphanous as if it was made of wax. Then Virgilio asked him what he name was. The customer replied giving a woman’s name, much to the amusement of the other customers, but it was the name Virgilio had silently willed the customer to give. After that Virgilio returned him to his normal self. Max was entranced by Virgilio’s demonstration and soon afterwards, and with Virgilio’s permission, took a number of friends to see him demonstrating his amazing, silent and rapid hypnotic demonstrations. On the other hand his friend Marco Paret remained a level-headed businessman and was initially unimpressed. Despite his negativity Max continued to regale him with what Virgilio was able to do, and constantly asked Marco to come with him and see for himself what amazing powers Virgilio possessed. Under that continued pressure Marco was finally persuaded to go and see for himself all the things Max had described ands he had thought bordered upon the impossible. And not only did he see them but Virgilio successfully used his fixed gaze technique on him, but his personal experience was to change Marco Paret’s life. After his personal experience he had long conversations with Max about how Virglio’s fixed method could be used to restore people to good health. They both agreed they had found something which would of great benefit to humanity and decided before they did else they would approach Virgilio Torrizzano and ask him he would accept them as his students. He agreed and they learned things which other people would not believe really existed. For instance, Virgilio not only had the ability to diagnose medical conditions accurately, he was also able to locate hidden objects. In addition to learning how to use instant ‘fixation’ they also learned how and where Virgilio had got his knowledge from. When he was fourteen years old Virgilio he had met ‘Rolando’. Rolando knew a very strange system of hypnotism. Even if Rolando never said where he had laernt the system, it was probably the same system that used the famous Donato Donato was the Belgian-born Alfred d’Hont, who, after a long and varied career as a soldier, a civil servant, journalist, author and poet, was introduced to animal magnetism/mesmerism in 1873. Donato developed the system after having spoken with a former magnetist, the chanoine De Mouls. De Mouls used the normal, accepted method of mesmerising his subjects; stroking, or hand-movements down the body which took some twenty minutes. Donato was encouraged by De Mouls to diffuse magnetism and Then for some totally unknown reason he developed and started to use his own method of instant mesmerism which he subsequently called ‘Fascination Magnetism’ (‘Fascination Magnétique’): All he had to do was to fix his gaze upon a person and they responded to what he silently willed them to do. Soon after he had discovered he could use instant mesmerism he travelled the length and breadth of Europe giving public demonstrations of his unique abilities, and fortunately, during one of his visits to Italy in 1886 an eyewitness reported what he did in L’Italia: ‘Donato looks at the young man quickly, brusquely, and from very close; the operator then turns the subject round and continues to fix him and provoke with his glance; the latter, as though attracted and fascinated, follows him with wide open eyes. ‘He experiments with about thirty young men, one by one... All of them respond immediately to the power of his fascination, by turning stiff throughout their bodies; their faces becoming contracted, terrified and sometimes cadaverous; they are at the mercy of the fascinator and following his movements like a magnet.....Donato has all of them under his power, he attracts them in threes, sixes, ten at a time, simply by rapidly staring at their eyes, even against their firm will and their obstinate efforts to resist...... Donato, in the process, never speaks,: he thinks, he wants and he points....’ (Donato’s Method – http:www.mesmerismus.info/info-2/inspirators-and-masters/metodo-donato.) A famous German medical hypnotist, Dr. Albert Moll of Berlin, also wrote Donato and ‘Fascination’ in his book Hypnotism (1890. Walter Scott, London) about ‘Fascination’. Initially he referred to Donata as ‘a professional magnetizer’, although a little later he wrote that Donato was a ‘hypnotist’, which he was not, he was a Magnetic Fascinator. But despite Moll’s misinterpretation he went on to write, ‘As I saw in Paris, Donato uses a particular process to bring about this state. This process aims at a primary forced contracture of all the muscles of the body, in order, by this means to limit the voluntary movements as much as possible. In this case the eyes of the hypnotist and the subject are firmly fixed on one another. The subject finally follows every movement of the experimenter. If he goes backwards, the subject follows; he if comes forward, the subject does the same. In the same way the latter imitates every movement of the experimenter, only on the condition, that he knows he is intended to do so. We see here, as in the above third experiment, that fascination may be a primary form of hypnosis. But it can also be originated secondarily out of the other hypnotic states; and that is more usual. When the experimenter has hypnotized the subject in some other way, and has him open his eyes, he can fix his own steadily on them, and thus induce the same phenomena. A variety of this fascination is to fix the eyes of the subject on some other object – for example, on the finger of the experimenter. In this case the fascinated person follows every movement made by the finger.’ (Pages 64/65) What Moll did not apparently appreciate was that Donato never had use a hypnotic induction technique, he simply used a Fixed Gaze on a person and the fascination was immediately effective. As so often happens when someone becomes interested in a particular subject they unexpectedly locate something important in the same area of their interest, and this was particularly true of Marco Paret and his friend Max. While they were in contact with Virgilio they heard of the work of a Professor Erminio di Pisa, who at the time lived in Milan. He was a man who had studied hypnotism from the same age as Virglio; when he was fourteen years old. Nor did the coincidence stop there of age stop there. Professor Erminio also discovered his own way of to hypnotise people immediately, something he called, ‘Instant Hypnosis’, and more importantly achieved instant healing in the majority of people seeking his help. A few of his patients/clients required two or three sessions before their condition was permanently resolved. Intrigued by what they heard about the Professor, Marco and Max telephoned him to ask whether they could meet him. Without any hesitation he said ‘Yes’, and that was to result in being the first of many visits where they were talked about and witnessed his techniques. His method was very simple. Erminio would ask what and where the problem was. He would then instantly ‘hypnotise’ by fixating them with his eyes and seconds later he would feel, intuitively, the problem had gone where upon he would terminate the session. Because each session only last a matter of a few minutes he was able to see up to 300 people per day without feeling drained of energy at the end of the day. How did it work? A psychiatrist, Professor Muzzana tried to explain it. He said ‘Erminio acts on the autonomous thalamus and hypothalamus within our cerebral axis, namely, the vegetative brain. He extirpates distress and restores happiness and self confidence. He removes addiction to smoking, alcohol and drugs. He has an exceptional rate of success with asthmatics, people affected by hypertension, and those beset by sexual problems or treated by dermatologists. I have attended hundreds of conferences on hypnosis: Whenever the speaker was asked to give a practical demonstration, he was almost always to bring it off successfully. This was not the case of Erminio Di Pisa. He is sure of succeeding!.... The doctor who cures six or seven patients is one who displays an abundant command of his art. Erminio goes further, by seeking to harmonize his nature with his individual subjects!’.1 (Paret, M. Healing a number of pathologies – Reawakening the immune system – French Magnetists : Du Potet – Durville – Maitre Phillippe. Mesmerismus, Nice.) Note for Peter: Erminio practiced all types of techniques: his instant healing, but he did also magnetic healings (though very fast) and spoken hypnotism, but always using the gaze and the idea of energy. He wrote therefore a book with the title “Practical Hypno-magnetism” (Ipnomagnetismo Pratico). Erminio experimented also on the so called “higher phenomena” of magnetism. Again luck played a part in what was to happen in the future. Paret soon became a friend of Emernio’s and it was with his help he was able to set establish his first hypnotic practice. To many people what Erminio achieved may sound incredible, but his method worked, and when he died in 2002 it was estimated he had hypnotised and treated some 250,000 people. While investigation into mesmerism was exciting to Marco and Max, the whole question of hypnotism in Italy was rather sterile. A few doctors and psychologists used the typical hypnotism approach with moderate success, although a large number of people who had been practicing magnetic cures that after World War 2 renamed their method, calling it ‘Pranotherapy’, which was and is an energy laying on of hands similar to ‘Therapeutic Touch’. But then ‘Neuro-Linguistic Programming’ (NLP), a system developed by Richard Bandler and John Grinder, burst upon the psychotherapeutic horizon promising to ‘help people have better, fuller and richer lives’, (Bandler, R. and Grinder, J. The Structure of Magic. Volume 2. 1975. Science & Behavior Books. Palo Alto, CA.) and to solve their emotional problems. In addition to the therapeutic aspect, the principles of NLP were adapted so it could play an important role in industrial team-building, business communication, persuasion and management training, and it was the latter which attracted Marco Paret because of his then involvement with marketing. Rather than just read about NLP Marco decided to study it properly with the leading men in the NLP field, hence him eventually becoming recognised as a qualified NLP Master Trainer. But again Lady Luck laid down another path for him journey on. Purely by chance he saw a video of the American hypnotist, Gil Boyne, who was affectionately known as the ‘Godfather of Hypnotherapy’, and the founder of the ‘Hypnotic Training Institute’ in Los Angeles. And the things that struck Paret most, was that Gil Boyne had developed a Direct Gaze hypnotic induction technique which was closely linked to the technique Professor Erminio used, and more than that he had even developed his own Rapid Induction which bore many similarities to Mesmerism. Having seen that video he researched to find was there any other unique hypnotists. He found another one. Another American, Ormond McGill, who was regarded by many as being the ‘Dean of American Hypnotists’. Ormond McGill besides being a brilliant hypnotist and teacher of hypnosis had toured the Far East in 1958, when he was 45 years old and became interested in what he described as ‘Oriental Hypnotism’. His interest in the philosophy and practice of Oriental hypnotism was encouraged on a visit to India where he had the opportunity to how the Indian hypnotists worked. He not only saw them working but was allowed to photograph them; the photographs appearing in his autobiography, The Secrets of Dr. Zomb (Crown House Publishing. 2003. Carmarthen, Wales, and Williston, Vt.) Anyone viewing his photographs will immediately see how they very closely resemble the techniques used by Mesmer and the mesmerists. In view of their unique backgrounds it is little wonder that he made arrangements to visit Gil Boyne in America and find out whether his techniques were the same as Erminio’s. They weren’t, but when Gil found out Marco had studied NLP he told him and others in the group, ‘Why do you learn NLP because it only does what I do, but takes more time?’ Later, in a personal letter to me Marco wrote, ‘I think NLP is interesting, but it only scratches the surface. It is a useful tool to create a preliminary rapport with the use of words’. Although he still teaches courses on NLP. It was on his American travels he met Ormond McGill and had a long conversation with him about some of the hypnotic fascination techniques he had seen and heard of on his visit to India. After his American journey he returned to Italy and became a serious student with Virglio, and soon afterwards felt he was sufficiently knowledgeable to open the Institute of Hypnosis and NLP in Torino, Italy.