It is the base level for all people wanting to go on to further specific accreditation. The 3 stages of the Magnetic Path are: It encompasses the three main teachings of 1) Mesmerismus (c) / Magnetismus 2) Fascination (Power of the gaze) 3) Presence and personal Magnetism Step 2 The 4 days advanced courses completes the basic course in order to arrive to 10 days of training. The 4 days advanced course completes the basic path The four days advanced courses encompasses these two 2 days seminars: Seminar: Non verbal Hypnotism - sound and touches to create a state of trance Seminar: NLP3 and other techniques. NLP3 - the magnetic neuroframe to deal with different people. Our school specializes in non verbal communication and is the most advanced institute in this field. NLP-3 is mostly based on non verbal communication instead as on the verbal one. It goes far beyond classical NLP. It is a “magical” NLP with different techniques and connects it with the enneagram and what is presented in the magnetic path. Very useful for persuasion and subliminal non verbal communication. In conjunction with the magnetic path opens up to a kind a certification permitting to teach NLP-3 as well to Practitioner and Master in NLP and NLP-3. NLP3 - the magnetic neuroframe to deal with different people. The six types of personality. Demonstrational techniques Seminar: Hermetic and spiritual Magnetism (2 days) Two days with attention to the hermetic (alchemical) aspect and also to the spiritual aspect. Seminar: Coaching for magneting success and presence for succesful presentation (2 days) Using magnetism to get success in life. Note. This module is requested in order to become trainer OTHER MODULES Other modules not yet implemented in english but already existing in our italian ACADEMY path A) Hypnomentalism - tools for mind-reading and mind control (2 days). This part of the course will teach you how to use trance states to alter the reality of a person and have them react in an unconscious way. We use only non-verbal communication, a few words, and obviously the power of the mind for this practice. It is a discipline that is very impressive not only to the client, but also to the practitioner, as we will show you how to do some amazing things during the training. Uses in real life of these skills are in: better understanding people at deeper levels than the verbal one, communicating with the unconscious mind, having reaction to non verbal symbols and intentions. B) European Non verbal and fascinative Stage hypnotism (2 days) - different approaches (Salamini, Gabrielli etc...) to create a successful show C) Hypnotism and Magnetism Practice - Magnetism and Hypnotism for Depression, Weight control D) Quantum memory course (innovative tools for memory and getting results) BECOMING TRAINER To become trainer we ask succesful participation in: 1 - the basic course 2 - the advanced course 3 - coaching and presentation 4 - 1 day of personal coaching 5 - repeat as assistant the basic course (to understand how it works). PERSONAL COACHING FOR CREATING YOUR OWN PRACTICE Personal coaching for becoming really professional (groups of five sessions) VIDEOS We have a complete video course that can accompany the basis course. It comes with three different types of access. The most expensive membership is 725 euros (note: we have an agreement with the producer and we must give him back the 50% of each membership sold) BOOKS Dr.Marco Paret is a world renowned mesmerism, hypnosis & NLP trainer and researcher. He has published over 20 books in 3 different languages. His work has been extensively featured across many media platforms on TV, radio & print in his home country Italy & France, as well as internationally. Dr Marco has trained thousands students through his ISI-CNV learning academy, helping propel them into successful careers in a range of different healing modalities. Here are some of the most popular titles in english ENGLISH BOOKS Easy Guide to Magnetism and Hypnotism Your other Mind Hypnotic Fascination The Magnetic Gaze NLP3 USES OF THE TECHNIQUES: 1) Becoming Professional using non verbal and mesmeric techniques (complete academy course) or improving your skills if you already are a professional NOTE: it is important to inderstand that what we do constitute an alternative or a complementarity to the traditional course for becoming hypnotherapist. Our techniques are sufficient to permit to a person to open and conduct a succesful practice. Our goal is forming a complete professional that uses and coach in non verbal way . An approach more connected to the inner Nature of the persons as non verbal and to the development of personal magnetism inside the operator, being therefore freer from procedure. This approach also a more spiritual approach. 2) Becoming a trainer and creating classes collaborating inside our organisation 3) Inner development and personal quest. In this case it (personal quest) is granted the partecipation to a course of study (called circles ATOUM) conducted by a non profit organization. Following it possibility to be admitted in several esoteric orders Therapeutical (Myriam) Templars and others Dr. Marco Paret and the Re-Birth of Mesmerism (written by Peter Blythe) One hundred and thirty three years after the Societé de l’Harmonie was formed in Paris so Mesmer could start to teaching Animal Magnetism to a select group of students, including Benjamin Franklin’s grandson William Temple Franklin, who was a great admirer of Mesmer, Mesmerism began to be taught once again in 1996. This time Animal Magnetism/Mesmerism is not being taught in Paris, but in Nice, in the South of France, and the person conducting the training is, Dr. Marco Paret, a graduate from Turin University. To understand how Paret became a Mesmerist it is necessary to look at his background, because he was a level-headed businessman who after completing his studies at Turin University worked in marketing for the next five or six years and employed by major companies such as Fiat and Michelin. Then something incredible happened which changed his life. In 1990 a good friend of his, Max, became interested in hypnotism and to find more about it he approached Virgilio Torrizzano who, he had heard used hypnotism from time to time, and very successfully. Max found out that Virgilio was working as a barber and went to see him. The shop was full of customers waiting to have their hair cut, so he waited until one customer got out of the barber’s chair when he approached Virgilio asking him could he tell him how hypnotism worked. He thought he might be able to make arrangements for them to meet in the future at another mutually convenient time. But he was in for a surprise because without saying a word to Max he turned to the waiting customers, asking them if they would agree to take part in a simple experiment he wanted to conduct. When they all agreed, although one of them did so rather reluctantly, he closed the shop door and fixed his gaze firmly upon the customer whose face showed he was far from happy at what was taking place; all he had was wanted was a haircut. But within seconds the customer’s obvious look of annoyance and defiance changed as Virgilio continued his fixed gaze and told him that the cigarette he was smoking tasted and smelled awful. The man then became doubled up in a paroxysm of coughing which was so violent Virgilio had to slap his face a number to bring him back to reality. If that was not enough he turned his gaze on another customer, and without saying a word the customer’s face became ashen and virtually diaphanous as if it was made of wax. Then Virgilio asked him what he name was. The customer replied giving a woman’s name, much to the amusement of the other customers, but it was the name Virgilio had silently willed the customer to give. After that Virgilio returned him to his normal self. Max was entranced by Virgilio’s demonstration and soon afterwards, and with Virgilio’s permission, took a number of friends to see him demonstrating his amazing, silent and rapid hypnotic demonstrations. On the other hand his friend Marco Paret remained a level-headed businessman and was initially unimpressed. Despite his negativity Max continued to regale him with what Virgilio was able to do, and constantly asked Marco to come with him and see for himself what amazing powers Virgilio possessed. Under that continued pressure Marco was finally persuaded to go and see for himself all the things Max had described ands he had thought bordered upon the impossible. And not only did he see them but Virgilio successfully used his fixed gaze technique on him, but his personal experience was to change Marco Paret’s life. After his personal experience he had long conversations with Max about how Virglio’s fixed method could be used to restore people to good health. They both agreed they had found something which would of great benefit to humanity and decided before they did else they would approach Virgilio Torrizzano and ask him he would accept them as his students. He agreed and they learned things which other people would not believe really existed. For instance, Virgilio not only had the ability to diagnose medical conditions accurately, he was also able to locate hidden objects. In addition to learning how to use instant ‘fixation’ they also learned how and where Virgilio had got his knowledge from. When he was fourteen years old Virgilio he had met ‘Rolando’. Rolando knew a very strange system of hypnotism. Even if Rolando never said where he had laernt the system, it was probably the same system that used the famous Donato Donato was the Belgian-born Alfred d’Hont, who, after a long and varied career as a soldier, a civil servant, journalist, author and poet, was introduced to animal magnetism/mesmerism in 1873. Donato developed the system after having spoken with a former magnetist, the chanoine De Mouls. De Mouls used the normal, accepted method of mesmerising his subjects; stroking, or hand-movements down the body which took some twenty minutes. Donato was encouraged by De Mouls to diffuse magnetism and Then for some totally unknown reason he developed and started to use his own method of instant mesmerism which he subsequently called ‘Fascination Magnetism’ (‘Fascination Magnétique’): All he had to do was to fix his gaze upon a person and they responded to what he silently willed them to do. Soon after he had discovered he could use instant mesmerism he travelled the length and breadth of Europe giving public demonstrations of his unique abilities, and fortunately, during one of his visits to Italy in 1886 an eyewitness reported what he did in L’Italia: ‘Donato looks at the young man quickly, brusquely, and from very close; the operator then turns the subject round and continues to fix him and provoke with his glance; the latter, as though attracted and fascinated, follows him with wide open eyes. ‘He experiments with about thirty young men, one by one... All of them respond immediately to the power of his fascination, by turning stiff throughout their bodies; their faces becoming contracted, terrified and sometimes cadaverous; they are at the mercy of the fascinator and following his movements like a magnet.....Donato has all of them under his power, he attracts them in threes, sixes, ten at a time, simply by rapidly staring at their eyes, even against their firm will and their obstinate efforts to resist...... Donato, in the process, never speaks,: he thinks, he wants and he points....’ (Donato’s Method – http:www.mesmerismus.info/info-2/inspirators-and-masters/metodo-donato.) A famous German medical hypnotist, Dr. Albert Moll of Berlin, also wrote Donato and ‘Fascination’ in his book Hypnotism (1890. Walter Scott, London) about ‘Fascination’. Initially he referred to Donata as ‘a professional magnetizer’, although a little later he wrote that Donato was a ‘hypnotist’, which he was not, he was a Magnetic Fascinator. But despite Moll’s misinterpretation he went on to write, ‘As I saw in Paris, Donato uses a particular process to bring about this state. This process aims at a primary forced contracture of all the muscles of the body, in order, by this means to limit the voluntary movements as much as possible. In this case the eyes of the hypnotist and the subject are firmly fixed on one another. The subject finally follows every movement of the experimenter. If he goes backwards, the subject follows; he if comes forward, the subject does the same. In the same way the latter imitates every movement of the experimenter, only on the condition, that he knows he is intended to do so. We see here, as in the above third experiment, that fascination may be a primary form of hypnosis. But it can also be originated secondarily out of the other hypnotic states; and that is more usual. When the experimenter has hypnotized the subject in some other way, and has him open his eyes, he can fix his own steadily on them, and thus induce the same phenomena. A variety of this fascination is to fix the eyes of the subject on some other object – for example, on the finger of the experimenter. In this case the fascinated person follows every movement made by the finger.’ (Pages 64/65) What Moll did not apparently appreciate was that Donato never had use a hypnotic induction technique, he simply used a Fixed Gaze on a person and the fascination was immediately effective. As so often happens when someone becomes interested in a particular subject they unexpectedly locate something important in the same area of their interest, and this was particularly true of Marco Paret and his friend Max. While they were in contact with Virgilio they heard of the work of a Professor Erminio di Pisa, who at the time lived in Milan. He was a man who had studied hypnotism from the same age as Virglio; when he was fourteen years old. Nor did the coincidence stop there of age stop there. Professor Erminio also discovered his own way of to hypnotise people immediately, something he called, ‘Instant Hypnosis’, and more importantly achieved instant healing in the majority of people seeking his help. A few of his patients/clients required two or three sessions before their condition was permanently resolved. Intrigued by what they heard about the Professor, Marco and Max telephoned him to ask whether they could meet him. Without any hesitation he said ‘Yes’, and that was to result in being the first of many visits where they were talked about and witnessed his techniques. His method was very simple. Erminio would ask what and where the problem was. He would then instantly ‘hypnotise’ by fixating them with his eyes and seconds later he would feel, intuitively, the problem had gone where upon he would terminate the session. Because each session only last a matter of a few minutes he was able to see up to 300 people per day without feeling drained of energy at the end of the day. How did it work? A psychiatrist, Professor Muzzana tried to explain it. He said ‘Erminio acts on the autonomous thalamus and hypothalamus within our cerebral axis, namely, the vegetative brain. He extirpates distress and restores happiness and self confidence. He removes addiction to smoking, alcohol and drugs. He has an exceptional rate of success with asthmatics, people affected by hypertension, and those beset by sexual problems or treated by dermatologists. I have attended hundreds of conferences on hypnosis: Whenever the speaker was asked to give a practical demonstration, he was almost always to bring it off successfully.