333333 Association Européenne PNL INTERNATIONAL SCHOOLS – ACADEMIC CONSORTIUM ECOLES INTERNATIONALES – CONSORTIUM ACADÉMIQUE ISI-CNV NLP INTERNATIONAL USA FACULTE’ LIBRE DE PNL France CAIRN ACADEMIC CONSORTIUM Belgium – France – Italy - UK – Nepal – India – Canada MESMERISM MAGNETISM FASCINATION NON-VERBAL HYPNOTISM NLP3 Dr. Paret's site www.marcoparet.com YouTube Videos and Demos https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCnaiNHRkcrbw6WQ9s9pVgBA Video Club http://www.mesmerismonline.com Books http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb_sb_noss_1?url=search-alias%3Dstripbooks&field-keywords=marco+paret English speaking Facebook Group https://www.facebook.com/groups/104573319590760/ Dr. Paret's Innovative Training Dr. Marco Paret is a world renowned mesmerism, hypnosis & NLP trainer and researcher. He has published over 20 books in 3 different languages. His work has been extensively featured across many media platforms on TV, radio & print in his home country Italy & France, as well as internationally in Australia, South America. Dr Marco has trained thousands students through his ISI-CNV learning academy, helping propel them into successful careers in a range of different healing modalities. Dr Marco worked with many international companies including: Complete course organization and outline Do you want to learn mesmerism, hypnosis or NLP3? Dr Marco has helped train over 2500 students who have gone on to successful careers in different healing modalities. Step 1 The 5 days (or 6 days) Main Course The Magnetic Path is our base training path, and will give you a broad knowledge on disciplines including Mesmerism, Fascination and Presence. It is the base level for all people wanting to go on to further specific accreditation. The 3 stages of the Magnetic Path are: It encompasses the three main teachings of 1) Mesmerismus (c) / Magnetismus 2) Fascination (Power of the gaze) 3) Presence and personal Magnetism Step 2 The 4 days advanced courses completes the basic course in order to arrive to 10 days of training. The 4 days advanced course completes the basic path The four days advanced courses encompasses these two 2 days seminars: Seminar: Non verbal Hypnotism - sound and touches to create a state of trance Seminar: NLP3 and other techniques. NLP3 - the magnetic neuroframe to deal with different people. Our school specializes in non verbal communication and is the most advanced institute in this field. NLP-3 is mostly based on non verbal communication instead as on the verbal one. It goes far beyond classical NLP. It is a “magical” NLP with different techniques and connects it with the enneagram and what is presented in the magnetic path. Very useful for persuasion and subliminal non verbal communication. In conjunction with the magnetic path opens up to a kind a certification permitting to teach NLP-3 as well to Practitioner and Master in NLP and NLP-3. NLP3 - the magnetic neuroframe to deal with different people. The six types of personality. Demonstrational techniques Seminar: Hermetic and spiritual Magnetism (2 days) Two days with attention to the hermetic (alchemical) aspect and also to the spiritual aspect. Seminar: Coaching for magneting success and presence for succesful presentation (2 days) Using magnetism to get success in life. Note. This module is requested in order to become trainer OTHER MODULES Other modules not yet implemented in english but already existing in our italian ACADEMY path A) Hypnomentalism - tools for mind-reading and mind control (2 days). This part of the course will teach you how to use trance states to alter the reality of a person and have them react in an unconscious way. We use only non-verbal communication, a few words, and obviously the power of the mind for this practice. It is a discipline that is very impressive not only to the client, but also to the practitioner, as we will show you how to do some amazing things during the training. Uses in real life of these skills are in: better understanding people at deeper levels than the verbal one, communicating with the unconscious mind, having reaction to non verbal symbols and intentions. B) European Non verbal and fascinative Stage hypnotism (2 days) - different approaches (Salamini, Gabrielli etc...) to create a successful show C) Hypnotism and Magnetism Practice - Magnetism and Hypnotism for Depression, Weight control D) Quantum memory course (innovative tools for memory and getting results) BECOMING TRAINER To become trainer we ask succesful participation in: 1 - the basic course 2 - the advanced course 3 - coaching and presentation 4 - 1 day of personal coaching 5 - repeat as assistant the basic course (to understand how it works). PERSONAL COACHING FOR CREATING YOUR OWN PRACTICE Personal coaching for becoming really professional (groups of five sessions) VIDEOS We have a complete video course that can accompany the basis course. It comes with three different types of access. The most expensive membership is 725 euros (note: we have an agreement with the producer and we must give him back the 50% of each membership sold) BOOKS Dr.Marco Paret is a world renowned mesmerism, hypnosis & NLP trainer and researcher. He has published over 20 books in 3 different languages. His work has been extensively featured across many media platforms on TV, radio & print in his home country Italy & France, as well as internationally. Dr Marco has trained thousands students through his ISI-CNV learning academy, helping propel them into successful careers in a range of different healing modalities. Here are some of the most popular titles in english ENGLISH BOOKS Easy Guide to Magnetism and Hypnotism Your other Mind Hypnotic Fascination The Magnetic Gaze NLP3 USES OF THE TECHNIQUES: 1) Becoming Professional using non verbal and mesmeric techniques (complete academy course) or improving your skills if you already are a professional NOTE: it is important to inderstand that what we do constitute an alternative or a complementarity to the traditional course for becoming hypnotherapist. Our techniques are sufficient to permit to a person to open and conduct a succesful practice. Our goal is forming a complete professional that uses and coach in non verbal way . An approach more connected to the inner Nature of the persons as non verbal and to the development of personal magnetism inside the operator, being therefore freer from procedure. This approach also a more spiritual approach. 2) Becoming a trainer and creating classes collaborating inside our organisation 3) Inner development and personal quest. In this case it (personal quest) is granted the partecipation to a course of study (called circles ATOUM) conducted by a non profit organization. Following it possibility to be admitted in several esoteric orders Therapeutical (Myriam) Templars and others Dr. Marco Paret and the Re-Birth of Mesmerism (written by Peter Blythe) One hundred and thirty three years after the Societé de l’Harmonie was formed in Paris so Mesmer could start to teaching Animal Magnetism to a select group of students, including Benjamin Franklin’s grandson William Temple Franklin, who was a great admirer of Mesmer, Mesmerism began to be taught once again in 1996. This time Animal Magnetism/Mesmerism is not being taught in Paris, but in Nice, in the South of France, and the person conducting the training is, Dr. Marco Paret, a graduate from Turin University. To understand how Paret became a Mesmerist it is necessary to look at his background, because he was a level-headed businessman who after completing his studies at Turin University worked in marketing for the next five or six years and employed by major companies such as Fiat and Michelin. Then something incredible happened which changed his life. In 1990 a good friend of his, Max, became interested in hypnotism and to find more about it he approached Virgilio Torrizzano who, he had heard used hypnotism from time to time, and very successfully. Max found out that Virgilio was working as a barber and went to see him.