The enneagram is a specific description, concise and precise, of nine personality profiles in which we can all recognize ourselves. It is an excellent tool to help us understand ourselves in a deeper way, to improve our understanding of others, to highlight positive sides in ourselves and in others, to soften negative ones, and to be able to comprehend similarity and dislikes. Apart from this description, the enneagram also identifies personal growth for us: to improve ourselves, develop thoughts, emotions, and unexpressed potentiality. The enneagram originated as a tool in the East, becoming widespread in the West later. The name comes from the Greek word ennea, which means nine and gramma which stands for sign. Our school has studied this original Arabic method and we can very well call ourselves the “founding school” regarding it, with particular reference to the subject of “communicational”, for no one else has examined it in such depth. Its use is both personal and professional. In a personal sphere, it is used to examine self-knowledge, developing a much more balanced personality, as well as the ability to better communicate with the people who count in our lives. On a professional level, however, it is very efficient because it enables us to understand our interlocutor better, in both therapy sessions and at work meetings. Knowing the different types is interesting, for once we have understood the psychology of who we have in front of us, we can behave accordingly, therefore, establishing an instant rapport. To know yourself and more, the enneagram is not only a system for entering into an emphatic rapport, it is a way of “knowing yourself in a dynamic way!” It provides an evolutionary guide, solid and efficient; it invites you to experiment with new and powerful strategies, to develop with awareness and resolve compulsions. “Identifying yourself in a personality is only the first step to a healthy and balanced growth”. Thanks to the integration with neuro-linguistic programming techniques, the potential of this system is increased to the extent that it makes the individualization of psychological type possible in a few minutes. THE NINE ENNEAGRAM TYPES 1. REFORMER The most important value for these people is to “avoid error” and to achieve perfection! They are critical towards themselves and others; they feel ethically superior. They make great use of the expressions like “you have to” and “need to”. Developed type one can be very astute or have “flair” and are moral heroes. They appreciate coherence, strive for things they can never have. They want perfection so much that they remain in a constant state of compulsion. Their representational channel is VISUAL AUDITORY. Key motivation: PERFECTION 2. THE HELPER Important values to those people are helping and asking for affection and approval; they want to gain love and recognition by making themselves indispensable. Their aim is to satisfy the other’s needs. Manipulative and in possession of many sides, they show a different self to each person according to the situation. They are, moreover, aggressive and seductive. Developed type two know how to offer sincere support and help. Their representational channel is COENEASTHESIS VISUAL Key Motivation: TO HELP 3. THE ACHIEVER These are the persons who steer others. Their password is “create success”. They want to be loved through facts and results. They are very competitive, obsessed by their own image as winners and of their corresponding social position. As masters of appearance, they appear more productive than they actually are. Developed type three can be efficient bosses; they have good planning ability, they are capable promoters, and they carry their team to victory! The compulsion to “do” is developed in them. Their representational channel is VISUAL COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivation: TO DO BY DEMONSTRATION 4. THE INDIVIDUALIST Thinking about love and emotions, they are attracted to the unachievable; their ideal is never “the here and now”. They are tragic and melancholic, artistic temperament and sensitive; they get stuck on long-distance love and on the loss of a friend. Developed type four live their lives creatively and they know how to help others in their suffering. They are devoted to beauty and passion, birth, sex, intensity, and death. Sometimes they seek out sufferance to better analyze it. They are very analytic and it is difficult for them to feel guilty. Their representation channel is COENEASTHESIS AUTIORY. Key Motivation: DON’T BE SUPERFICIAL; BE DEEP 5. THE INVESTIGATOR They are researchers, collecting information; “They stay in their ivory tower”. Their investment is in knowledge; in fact the motto that best describes them is “take care of the details”. They maintain emotional distance from others, protect their privacy, and do not allow themselves to get involved. They subdivide duties into compartments, being detached from people, feelings and things. Developed type five can cover decisional positions very well and become intellectuals. Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivations: MULTI-KNOWLEDGED; WANT TO KNOW EVERYTHING; KNOWLEDGE IS POWER! 6. THE LOYALIST They want to avoid danger and be influenced, reason on the intentions of others, and are critical from an intellectual point of view. They are timid, indecisive, procrastinator, for to them, thought substitutes action. They are frightened to act because exposing themselves may mean being attacked. They support lost causes and always put themselves in second place. The phobic type six are insecure; they feel persecuted and give in if they feel their backs are against the wall. The contra-phobic feel as if they constantly have their backs against the wall and react to fear with aggression. Developed type six are excellent team players, loyal soldiers and friends. They dedicate themselves to a cause in the same way others do for personal profit. Their representational channel is AUDITORY VISUAL. They have a fear of being cheated by human matters! Key Motivation: skepticism 7. THE ENTHUSIAST They are pleasure seekers, like the eternal child who approaches life in an amateurish way. They tend to go for brief relationships, superficiality, adventure and hedonism. They seldom make an effort; they want to keep all options open. Their main feature is that they are always in a good mood, generally happy and are good company. They start things but do not finish them. Developed type seven are excellent theorists, are very succinct and embody the “renaissance” man. They live very much in the present, in fact, they believe in the motto “carpe diem”. Their representational channel is VISUAL COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivation ACT and LIVE! 8. THE CHALLENGER They believe fundamentally in struggle, therefore, lawyers come under type eight. Their motto is “dominate or be dominated”, being very protective, attacking to defend themselves and their friends. Being combatitive, openly showing anger and strength, they have a great respect for opponents who confront them sincerely. They have contact through sex and direct confrontation. They live excessively: too much of everything, late nights, voice too loud …etc. Developed type eight make excellent heads, for example, politicians. Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivation REBEL 9. THE PEACEMAKER They tend to sacrifice themselves to keep the peace, their motto is “It’s the taking part that counts not the winning”. They tend towards the anonymous, for they are not exhibitionists. In fact, they prefer anonymous situations. Being obsessively ambiguous, they always consider all points of view and substitute their own needs with those of the others. They tend to poison themselves with food, drink and television. They understand others’ needs before their own, tend to withdraw, are never sure if they want to stay in one place or not, or take part in the group or not. They are always willing, expressing their anger in indirect ways. Developed type nine make excellent advisers, peacekeepers and negotiators. They work well inside an organization. As they don’t want earthly love, they become hyper-spiritual and desire harmony to avoid taking positions. They have a preference for fickle positions. Their representational channel is COENEASTHESIS AUDITORY. Key Motivation: SEEK HARMONY KEY RELATIONS WITH ENNEAGRAM TYPES TYPE 1 (REFORMER) I’m OK if I’m perfect or strive for perfection! You’re OK if you are perfect or strive for perfection! TYPE 2 (HELPER) Let me help. Acknowledge them. TYPE 3 (ACHIEVER) Think positive! I’m OK if I think positive. You’re OK if you think positive.