The film is in black and white with circus music playing. The lights go on. You associate yourself as an actor and you are in the film while the montage sequences quickly rewind in color. Make the film run again in black and white (it gives an idea of oldness and has less emotional impact) while you go back to looking at the nape of your other self. Then go back to being an actor while the sequences are quickly rewound in color. Repeat various times. Ocular desensitization technique This technique is useful as reinforcement after having carried out the cinema technique. Go to the event that produced the phobia and take a mental photograph. Place the photo on your finger. Move your finger from left to right to the sound of circus music. Repeat until you eliminate it. Anxiety Techniques Anxiety is an idea not a reality!!!!! We are in fact anxious for things that have not yet happened and probably never will! PROCEDURE Go beyond the time line into the future, after the positive conclusion of the event. Feel the sensation. Come back to the present. If the anxiety does not disappear, then you will need to restructure it: “I know there is a part of you that thinks that it is important to have a little bit of anxiety to motivate yourself and I agree that it is important to be motivated, the problem is that anxiety isn’t good for the body. Are there other ways in which it is possible to be motivated and let go of the anxiety?” Some people, instead of motivating themselves with positive thoughts, motivate themselves with negative ones. The above technique can be also useful to change this. MOTIVATING YOURSELF WITH FEAR IS NEGATIVE BECAUSE IT IS DESTRUCTIVE “Fear knocked on my door, faith opened the door and there was no one there”. (Skip Ross) SHUFFLING Shuffles are anchors that create movement towards a desirable future. We install choices for a new way of living The following procedure explains the Shuffling technique: Imagine your desired behavior or the type of person you would like to be. If this state had an image where would you put it? Where are the things that make you feel safe? Take the old image and push it away until it becomes a little dot. (Helping yourself with your finger). Make the positive image come back from the little dot into the place where the safe things are. Repeat, pausing between each time, open and close the eyes and repeat seven times. N.B. Make sure you have a detailed representation of your desired state These are only some of the techniques used by Neuro-Linguistic Programming and from what you have been able to gather, it is clear that the person who turns to an NLP technician remains partly active. In fact, unlike traditional therapies, NLP provides you with the tools in order that you can consciously work on yourself in a quick and dynamic way. With the NLP model, one is interested in the process that leads to the final result. Bandler and Grinder defined personality as “choice”, meaning that instead of concentrating on which function of the ego is being activated, by whom and for what reason, attention should be aimed at how many choices that person has available at that time. It is not necessary to classify a subject’s experience or re-live infant traumas to be able to change a behavioral aspect. The person can decide which behavior to modify, having at hand all the necessary tools with which to change. Although when necessary, especially at the beginning, this should be done with the help of the operator. Erickson, the best hypnotist of our times, never solved a problem in the traditional way. His way of applying therapy was astonishing. He used revolutionary techniques that were extremely efficient and he used different methods on different people, so that for a long time it was not possible to write anything about him or identify him with a particular type of therapy as had happened with other psychoanalysts. He agreed that he did not have a particular method; he compared himself to an artist and said, “When an artist paints he needs to be inspired. The same thing happens to me when I find myself faced with a problem. I decide in that moment what to do”. In each case the most important element in Erickson’s therapeutic practice was his use of instructive stories, anecdotes and riddles, for example, to overcome habitual limits, he used stories to expand peoples’ minds. THE BASIC METHOD USED BY Erickson in therapy was the “Symptom Prescription”, creating the way for small changes that were seen as the problem uptil that moment. It is something that prevents development, therefore, a behavior that springs up independently from will is prescribed at this point. Thus, the mind processes everything in a different way and the symptom or block goes away. This is only one example to let you understand how NLP is different from that of traditional psychoanalyses, a fact that cannot be questioned. However, if you had to achieve an internal re-harmonizing objective or overcome a problem and you had to choose between two paths (one which was shorter and easier the other longer and sometimes with signs that often told you to turn back and start your sometimes torturous and painful journey again), which would you choose? Just think that during a psychotherapy session where NLP techniques are applied, you do not need to tell your life story or whatever it was that brought you to have the problem or block in the first place. It is important to understand what it is that we want to free ourselves from or the behavior we want to change and act on. It is not important to dig around in the past looking for the cause of the behavior we want to change. It is a waste of energy that can be instead put to work in a constructive way by ourselves. Obviously all these techniques are only successful when the person has the will to give up his old behavior and replace it with s more constructive one that s/he chooses. “Man was born to live, not to prepare himself to live”. (Boris Pasternàk) Once you have acquired the technique, you will be able to feel in total control of your life, even when you find yourself faced with resolving one of your problems. You would have acquired the technique of consciously working on yourself, therefore, you would always be the craftsmen of your own progress. Obviously, you need to add a different mental approach, a more joyous way of seeing life almost as if it was a game. Remember, a person who is a “possibilist” is a positive person who has enormous internal energy, making him/ her active and capable even when faced with problems, for s/he can find winning strategies to solve them. Dedicate 10% to the problem and 90% to the solution. Take control of your life!!!! PART EIGHT: IL R.E.I. R.E.I., or Emotional Release, is a powerful technique for emotional problem resolving. It is based on new principles, which can be added to what has already been discussed up until now on NLP, Hypnosis and Enneagram, improving the finished result. Since this is a new subject, we advise you to visit our web site or telephone us on 348-3053013. WHY CHOOSE THESE NEW METHODS? “Because nothing exists outside of yourself that can have control over what is inside of you”. (W.W.Dyer) Unlike other models or psychologies, NLP and the other methods outlined here work on revealed behavior. As well as providing a different conception of the person and therefore the discomfort, the group of models suggested by these methods allow for the participation on a therapeutic, educative and preventative level in a controllable and measurable way. For example, the discomfort is restricted by putting into action specific, modifiable strategies, hence, detaching from the subject labeled “needy”. Recognizing the importance of empathy (fundamental in good doctor-patient relations and usually at risk in all types of psychotherapy) in the creation of models helps in: the training of it, the speed of application, and the proposing of models that can help with every communication step whether individual or group. PNL together with INSTANT RAPPORT are the most adapt instruments to intervene on an individual and social level. PNL deals with the most advanced frontiers of hypnotic and cognitive therapies, linked together in a clear way. Its main purpose, therefore, consists of the definition of itself as a group of models and not a theory. MODEL = a description of how something works without having to explain why. THEORY = reasons have to be found to explain why. The proposed models have been obtained by way of summing up and putting into action results gained from other communication academics. Example: The recovery of Pavlov’s work is evident in the use of the anchoring technique. From this viewpoint, the changing of the subject can only happen through the reframing of their internal representations so that a change of this type corresponds to an exterior alteration. “The world does not have to be put into order, the world is order incarnate. It’s up to us to find the right way of harmoniously positioning ourselves in it”. (Henry Miller) COMPROMISE ANALYSIS, PSYCHOSYTHESIS & PNL In compromise analysis, the personality is divided into three fundamental parts: the parent, the adult and the child. Human behavior is interpreted as a continuous interaction of these three parts; in a healthy personality, the three parts make collective decisions, each part taking into consideration the needs of the other. Conflicts arise when the parts start to act to their own advantage. At this point, the therapist observes the subject’s behavior and classifies it according to one of the three sub-divisions. This happens naturally when using the child, parent and adult metaphor, therefore, the client’s behavior is inscribed within the model. Although compromise analysis demonstrates the same formal models as other therapies, it uses NLP techniques, such as “anchor casting” or disassociation. This also counts for pyschosynthesis which basis its work on reframing, another NLP subject. However, as with compromise analysis, it splits the personality into various sub-personalities and if these are in conflict with each other, the client will show external incoherent behavior. This means that there is a struggle for control, therefore, the therapist’s work consists of mixing the parts that are in conflict and of synthesising the sub-personalities into one. When discussing pyschosynthesis we talk about a kind of controlled psychodrama, where the therapist can persuade the client to mentally occupy theatrical roles, allowing the different actors in the scene to express their individual intentions. So, we can say that there are identical process models in every therapeutic technique, all pointing to the same final result. However, what differentiates NLP is that it does not have any kind of subdivision and considers the individual in his/ her peculiar individuality, singleness and unity, having the ability to steer himself/ herself once s/he has learnt the relevant knowledge. Man is gifted with a mind that is able to invent the existence of time, space and conscience. S/he is an actor on a stage that s/he has constructed, complete with all the necessary accessories and scenes. Unfortunately, s/he does not realize the powerful instrument s/he has in his possession, in other words, the possibility to put “free will” into action or to be able to decide on what part he has on his own life stage. We live in a culture where other people program our brains or better still, where we in turn unconsciously program ourselves. So why do not we use this ability on ourselves when we are the first people in the world that we have to respect and understand? NLP’s key words are freedom, choice, self-control, autonomy, mental health and the power of communication based on feedback, in the sense that at the moment in which we communicate the other person has to interact with us. One of the corner stones of NLP is: “The significance of a communicative message is in the reaction that determines it”. I would like to highlight one more thing, which is that the instruments and techniques presented here all point to the “how” and “what” of the subjective experience. Therefore, you can, at any time in your life, change and improve yourself by choosing the way that you feel is most agreeable to you at that time, without having to make lengthy analysis on the “why” of a difficulty or behavior you want to alter.