Information is collected through all sensorial channels, but is elaborated through a few favored ones following a given strategy. Every human being depicts the world, favoring at all times one of three channels (visual; auditory; coenaesthesis) from which s/he derives his/ her representational system from primary reality. The other two intervene to a lesser degree; in fact, they are defined as secondary representational systems. For example, one person may pay more attention to appearance rather than consistency, another to sound, … etc It can be useful to understand and tune into others’ strategies to create a better rapport. VISUAL (V) are recognized by their straight posture, the positioning of their eyes, mainly upwards or forwards, their deep breathing, acute voice, short phrases and less literal sentences; they also tend to give a lot of importance to esthetic appearance. AUDITORY (A) move their eyes from side to side during a conversation. Their breathing is more thoracic, they learn by listening and, with respect to the visual, have better reflective ability. Their voices are melodic and they narrate for a longer time. One of the phrases they use is, “It sounds good”. COENAESTHESIS (K) breath abdominally, love physical contact and everything that has to do with touch, taste and smell. They have slow gestures, less consideration towards the external appearance of things compared to the subject matter, and memorize by practice. Their voice is deep and they often do not speak much. They focus on the other! FURTHER INFORMATION ON REPRESENTATIONAL TYPES According to the representational channel, the used content also differs: THINGS & PLACES normally indicate a visual preference and language is descriptive. INFORMATION indicates an auditory preference, in other words, things that can be told. ACTIVITY & PEOPLE indicate a coeneasthesis preference (for example: while skiing I felt a feeling of well-being). RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN COMMUNICATION STYLES AND SENSORIAL CHANNELS In another chapter we will analyze different communication styles. A correlation between communication styles and sensorial systems was ascertained. In particular: THE BLAMER IS VISUAL; THE COMPUTER IS AUDITORY; and THE PLACATOR IS COENEATHESIS. We can therefore reaffirm the concept that if we want to establish a rapport, we need to understand our interlocutor’s strategy and use it ourselves. However, apart from this, it is important not to leave out any channel. If instead, we discuss a person that does not use one of three channels, we are talking about an incomplete person. The three channels are: ACTION (VISUAL) INTELLECT (AUDITORY) EMOTION (COENEATHESIS) HOWEVER, THEY ALL NEED TO BE USED SHOWING A PREFERENCE FOR ONE OR TWO OF THEM. Further definitions We can define: INCOMPLETE is someone who does not use the third channel COMPLETE is someone who uses all three channels even if infrequently. We can consider that person an intermediate stage. ESSENCE is when someone combines all three channels. They can choose all of them, or more correctly they can choose any strategy. (For example: the condition of a baby, who can do everything, is essence). Therefore, that person can use the right and left hemispheres (creativity and logic) in equal measures. Everything you have read until now serves at a personal level, helping you to communicate better. Moreover, it is a very efficient therapy tool, for it allows us to have a picture of the person who needs his/ her problems resolved. Subsequently, when analyzing the channel used most frequently and that used less frequently, you can open the way to a new equilibrium. PART FIVE: PERSON TYPES Obviously, the more we delve into the communication argument, the more we learn about the different methods available for understanding what psychological type we have in front of us. Very useful in this procedure is the ENNEAGRAM. The enneagram in some schools of thought is seen as a tool for spiritual growth, in others, it is seen under a psychological profile. We follow a third idea; unlike the traditional methods, our emphasis falls on communication. For this reason we refer to the “Communicational Enneagram”. ENNEAGRAM “Enneagrams are the geometry of the soul, which reveal our character” (Helen Palmer) Have you ever wanted to know what your interlocutor thinks about? The enneagram is a specific description, concise and precise, of nine personality profiles in which we can all recognize ourselves. It is an excellent tool to help us understand ourselves in a deeper way, to improve our understanding of others, to highlight positive sides in ourselves and in others, to soften negative ones, and to be able to comprehend similarity and dislikes. Apart from this description, the enneagram also identifies personal growth for us: to improve ourselves, develop thoughts, emotions, and unexpressed potentiality. The enneagram originated as a tool in the East, becoming widespread in the West later. The name comes from the Greek word ennea, which means nine and gramma which stands for sign. Our school has studied this original Arabic method and we can very well call ourselves the “founding school” regarding it, with particular reference to the subject of “communicational”, for no one else has examined it in such depth. Its use is both personal and professional. In a personal sphere, it is used to examine self-knowledge, developing a much more balanced personality, as well as the ability to better communicate with the people who count in our lives. On a professional level, however, it is very efficient because it enables us to understand our interlocutor better, in both therapy sessions and at work meetings. Knowing the different types is interesting, for once we have understood the psychology of who we have in front of us, we can behave accordingly, therefore, establishing an instant rapport. To know yourself and more, the enneagram is not only a system for entering into an emphatic rapport, it is a way of “knowing yourself in a dynamic way!” It provides an evolutionary guide, solid and efficient; it invites you to experiment with new and powerful strategies, to develop with awareness and resolve compulsions. “Identifying yourself in a personality is only the first step to a healthy and balanced growth”. Thanks to the integration with neuro-linguistic programming techniques, the potential of this system is increased to the extent that it makes the individualization of psychological type possible in a few minutes. THE NINE ENNEAGRAM TYPES 1. REFORMER The most important value for these people is to “avoid error” and to achieve perfection! They are critical towards themselves and others; they feel ethically superior. They make great use of the expressions like “you have to” and “need to”. Developed type one can be very astute or have “flair” and are moral heroes. They appreciate coherence, strive for things they can never have. They want perfection so much that they remain in a constant state of compulsion. Their representational channel is VISUAL AUDITORY. Key motivation: PERFECTION 2. THE HELPER Important values to those people are helping and asking for affection and approval; they want to gain love and recognition by making themselves indispensable. Their aim is to satisfy the other’s needs. Manipulative and in possession of many sides, they show a different self to each person according to the situation. They are, moreover, aggressive and seductive. Developed type two know how to offer sincere support and help. Their representational channel is COENEASTHESIS VISUAL Key Motivation: TO HELP 3. THE ACHIEVER These are the persons who steer others. Their password is “create success”. They want to be loved through facts and results. They are very competitive, obsessed by their own image as winners and of their corresponding social position. As masters of appearance, they appear more productive than they actually are. Developed type three can be efficient bosses; they have good planning ability, they are capable promoters, and they carry their team to victory! The compulsion to “do” is developed in them. Their representational channel is VISUAL COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivation: TO DO BY DEMONSTRATION 4. THE INDIVIDUALIST Thinking about love and emotions, they are attracted to the unachievable; their ideal is never “the here and now”. They are tragic and melancholic, artistic temperament and sensitive; they get stuck on long-distance love and on the loss of a friend. Developed type four live their lives creatively and they know how to help others in their suffering. They are devoted to beauty and passion, birth, sex, intensity, and death. Sometimes they seek out sufferance to better analyze it. They are very analytic and it is difficult for them to feel guilty. Their representation channel is COENEASTHESIS AUTIORY. Key Motivation: DON’T BE SUPERFICIAL; BE DEEP 5. THE INVESTIGATOR They are researchers, collecting information; “They stay in their ivory tower”. Their investment is in knowledge; in fact the motto that best describes them is “take care of the details”. They maintain emotional distance from others, protect their privacy, and do not allow themselves to get involved. They subdivide duties into compartments, being detached from people, feelings and things. Developed type five can cover decisional positions very well and become intellectuals. Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivations: MULTI-KNOWLEDGED; WANT TO KNOW EVERYTHING; KNOWLEDGE IS POWER! 6. THE LOYALIST They want to avoid danger and be influenced, reason on the intentions of others, and are critical from an intellectual point of view. They are timid, indecisive, procrastinator, for to them, thought substitutes action. They are frightened to act because exposing themselves may mean being attacked. They support lost causes and always put themselves in second place. The phobic type six are insecure; they feel persecuted and give in if they feel their backs are against the wall. The contra-phobic feel as if they constantly have their backs against the wall and react to fear with aggression. Developed type six are excellent team players, loyal soldiers and friends. They dedicate themselves to a cause in the same way others do for personal profit. Their representational channel is AUDITORY VISUAL. They have a fear of being cheated by human matters!