REFLECTIVENESS What are the gestures that accompany each of these states? Pleasure, for example, is perceived by way of specific gestures. Remember that CNV is sensorially demonstrated and it is so inherent in man that it can’t be conditioned in anyway. SOME NON-VERBAL SIGNS The attention that a person shows during listening to someone else is shown by the body posture. For example, leaning the chest forward is a sign of attention. Pleasure is connected to the lips and to the so-called analogical kisses. Biting the lips means: “I would like to but I can’t” The tongue is an indicator of strong pleasure towards the person, the subject being discussed, or the situation. Playing around with a ring, a bracelet,… etc., indicates interest. Running fingers through the hair is connected to the desire to be involved. Interest is connected to olfaction except when you rub under the nostrils with a finger. Attention is connected to the leaning forward of the chest. Reflection is an internal dialogue and it manifests itself by tiny movements of the circular kind, like when you touch your ear. When you touch your chin you are being even more reflective. EMOTIONAL UNBURDENING Emotional unburdening can be highlighted by way of three elements: 1. CRYING OR LAUGHING, which reduces tension. 2. SWALLOWING which is tied to emotional states, a sign of something you like that you cannot have but would like to have. 3. THROAT CLEARING more common among smokers, very useful in therapy. One is able to extrapolate a person’s doubts. (For example: you ask a question to the interlocutor and after they have replied they clear their throat). VALUES Our behavior is tied to our values. Thanks to the observation of their emotional replies, Non-Verbal Communication allows us to see when we are getting close to a person’s most important value. There are specific questions that allow us to identify (the technical term is “elicit”) values. Both in therapy and in disputes, when we want to understand a person in order to have a clearer idea, we need to know what he focuses on, what motivates him, what is in his head at the moment. Questions to ask could be: 1. What do you focus on? 2. What motivates you? 3. What are you mainly doing? 4. Where do you think you will be in the future? (This question is useful in understanding the degree of self-confidence, decisions and attitudes). 5. What is important to you? (A question that allows us to understand a person’s values) 6. What exactly does that mean? COMMUNICATION STYLES The signs just highlighted are then connected to a specific “communication style”. Hand movements can be of great help in this area. While the person is talking or answering our questions, if we are focused and we pay attention to hand gestures, we can understand more. A famous family therapist, Virginia Satir, has identified three types of persons: 1. THE BLAMER: When adopting this style, the person is very active, tends to impose himself/ herself, focalizes on himself/ herself, decisive, determined, and his her hand movements are cutting or finger-pointing. S/he uses imperatives or generalizations. 2. THE COMPUTER: Hand movements are rotatory and reflexive. While speaking, s/he enumerations like: “Given that” and “because”. The reasoning is logical, for s/he wants to achieve something by demonstrating. The focus is on the subject and there is an absence of “me” and “you”. 3. PLACATOR: when adopting this style, the person tries to make himself/ herself nice. Communicating in an emotional way, placating and making himself/ herself compliant, the reasoning is, consequently, emotional. This type of person tends to focus on the other and is more passive than reactive. Hand movements are open or in a triangle position. PART FOUR: REPRESENTATIONAL OR SENSORIAL SYSTEMS From the beginning of time, all traditions have leaned towards the belief that perception of reality is a product of the senses. In recent times, NLP and other methods have thrown new light on what this really means. We do not directly perceive reality: we see (and feel, … etc) what our minds perceive of reality. What we distinguish as reality, we translate into internal representations that have an influence on our behavior and, therefore, condition it. Behavior strategies are created on the basis of the information we receive from our surroundings through our sensory channels. A subjective behavior model is the “world map that isn’t the world”. Representational systems are the sensorial formalities through which individual experience is given meaning. Information is collected through all sensorial channels, but is elaborated through a few favored ones following a given strategy. Every human being depicts the world, favoring at all times one of three channels (visual; auditory; coenaesthesis) from which s/he derives his/ her representational system from primary reality. The other two intervene to a lesser degree; in fact, they are defined as secondary representational systems. For example, one person may pay more attention to appearance rather than consistency, another to sound, … etc It can be useful to understand and tune into others’ strategies to create a better rapport. VISUAL (V) are recognized by their straight posture, the positioning of their eyes, mainly upwards or forwards, their deep breathing, acute voice, short phrases and less literal sentences; they also tend to give a lot of importance to esthetic appearance. AUDITORY (A) move their eyes from side to side during a conversation. Their breathing is more thoracic, they learn by listening and, with respect to the visual, have better reflective ability. Their voices are melodic and they narrate for a longer time. One of the phrases they use is, “It sounds good”. COENAESTHESIS (K) breath abdominally, love physical contact and everything that has to do with touch, taste and smell. They have slow gestures, less consideration towards the external appearance of things compared to the subject matter, and memorize by practice. Their voice is deep and they often do not speak much. They focus on the other! FURTHER INFORMATION ON REPRESENTATIONAL TYPES According to the representational channel, the used content also differs: THINGS & PLACES normally indicate a visual preference and language is descriptive. INFORMATION indicates an auditory preference, in other words, things that can be told. ACTIVITY & PEOPLE indicate a coeneasthesis preference (for example: while skiing I felt a feeling of well-being). RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN COMMUNICATION STYLES AND SENSORIAL CHANNELS In another chapter we will analyze different communication styles. A correlation between communication styles and sensorial systems was ascertained. In particular: THE BLAMER IS VISUAL; THE COMPUTER IS AUDITORY; and THE PLACATOR IS COENEATHESIS. We can therefore reaffirm the concept that if we want to establish a rapport, we need to understand our interlocutor’s strategy and use it ourselves. However, apart from this, it is important not to leave out any channel. If instead, we discuss a person that does not use one of three channels, we are talking about an incomplete person. The three channels are: ACTION (VISUAL) INTELLECT (AUDITORY) EMOTION (COENEATHESIS) HOWEVER, THEY ALL NEED TO BE USED SHOWING A PREFERENCE FOR ONE OR TWO OF THEM. Further definitions We can define: INCOMPLETE is someone who does not use the third channel COMPLETE is someone who uses all three channels even if infrequently. We can consider that person an intermediate stage. ESSENCE is when someone combines all three channels. They can choose all of them, or more correctly they can choose any strategy. (For example: the condition of a baby, who can do everything, is essence). Therefore, that person can use the right and left hemispheres (creativity and logic) in equal measures. Everything you have read until now serves at a personal level, helping you to communicate better. Moreover, it is a very efficient therapy tool, for it allows us to have a picture of the person who needs his/ her problems resolved. Subsequently, when analyzing the channel used most frequently and that used less frequently, you can open the way to a new equilibrium. PART FIVE: PERSON TYPES Obviously, the more we delve into the communication argument, the more we learn about the different methods available for understanding what psychological type we have in front of us. Very useful in this procedure is the ENNEAGRAM. The enneagram in some schools of thought is seen as a tool for spiritual growth, in others, it is seen under a psychological profile. We follow a third idea; unlike the traditional methods, our emphasis falls on communication. For this reason we refer to the “Communicational Enneagram”. ENNEAGRAM “Enneagrams are the geometry of the soul, which reveal our character” (Helen Palmer) Have you ever wanted to know what your interlocutor thinks about? The enneagram is a specific description, concise and precise, of nine personality profiles in which we can all recognize ourselves. It is an excellent tool to help us understand ourselves in a deeper way, to improve our understanding of others, to highlight positive sides in ourselves and in others, to soften negative ones, and to be able to comprehend similarity and dislikes.