Often, we hear phrases like, “With all this stress and anxiety for the things I’ve got to finish, I’ll get an ulcer!” We try to resolve our problems but are swamped by them. The answer distances itself and we remain trapped in a situation of malaise, and then we somatically try to face them. Dumping our tensions on the somatic tract and, over time, one of our organs can lead us to the point of becoming ill (target organ). An accumulation of particularly stressful events, and above all, the inability of the individual to manage the resulting emotions in an adequate way, can make the individual more susceptible to illness. As NLP also confirms, it is not the events in themselves that bring on psychosomatic illness or anxiety, but the way in which we live them and react to them. Before going ahead with the various techniques, it is advisable to highlight the importance of the psychophysical condition at our disposal and in this sense, relaxation techniques offer a great contribution. We also need to have trust the power of our minds and the fact that, as happens when using NLP techniques, it can be “reprogrammed”, substituting negative learning with positive, in such as way that the experience gained is prolonged in the future. Thoughts need to be used to feed us and not to block us anymore. The key to obtaining the results we want consists of placing of ourselves in a positive state of mind, with the awareness that we can govern our life. Moreover, when training, like in NLP, you use the dynamic and creative power of mental images to help with your self-discovery and to aid your desired changes in virtue of impulse which tends to translate the images into actions. During a visualisation, as well as with the visual images, you should also take into account other types of perception (auditory, tactile, kinaesthetic etc.) NLP goes further than autogenous training but with an extra gear! It goes deeper, restructuring our way of perceiving reality, substituting negative learning with positive learning. You, moreover, do not need to exercise yourself like you do in autogenous training. PART SEVEN: NLP and the Various Techniques Applicable to Various Aspects of Life In this chapter, we will put together some useful techniques and concepts for the following areas: Therapeutic Personal development Business The ideas highlighted here can only be a brief outline of a few applications. We ask that you get fully acquainted with the material to be able to use those applications thoroughly. ANCHORING How many times has listening to a particular tune brought back memories of an important or painful time in your life, making you re-live the same feelings? When an image or sound is tied to our mind, as an emotional state or a behavioural reaction, an anchorage has occurred. Anchors can be naturally or intentionally cast: the NLP technique can voluntarily provoke a connection of this type for therapeutic reasons. For example, in an examination setting, where a young person tends towards anxiety, a sensation of self-control and calmness can be anchored, to which they can access in their time of need by way of its attachment to a part of the body (the arm for example). Generally speaking, therapeutic anchors are of kinaesthetic type, in other words, tactile. In fact, it is much easier for a person to touch a part of the body than see an image or hear a sound. Subsequently, the operator can evoke in the subject a specific state of mind and, at the same time, make him associate it with a stimulus. EXERCISE Think about a negative emotion that you want to free yourself from and anchor by pressing your knee. Now, what is it that you would have needed at that moment? Anchor negatively by pressing the other knee. Then employ the two anchors at the same time (anchor failure). METAPHORS A metaphor is a story or tale that makes changes in those who listen. In NLP, metaphors are used as efficient therapeutic instruments for their extraordinarily ability to guide the listener through the use of mental processes that manage a change in the way reality is perceived. A typical example is that of the child who asks his parents to tell him a fairytale, because while he listens, he uses his fantasy to live the life of the characters, facing their difficulties and consequently finds in himself the resources to face eventual personal fears. Milton Erickson illustrated many therapeutic metaphors in his book My Voice Will Accompany You that were able to provoke such changes in the readers whom they left surprised. The objective of the metaphor consists in changing the way in which we face our problems...... IT ISN’T THE KEY, BUT IT’S A WAY TO TURN THE KEY!!!! SOME EXAMPLES OF SIMPLE METAPHORS The garden of life “Imagine that you are in a garden, the garden of your life; there are some dead leaves dotted around the ground, all your worries are written on them; start to collect them, now burn them and scatter the ashes!” The lake “Imagine that you are at the bottom of a lake, the lake is your imagination; put every thought that you create in your head in a bubble and let it float to the top”. TIME LINE The River Metaphor If we dirty the water in a particular place, the whole river will be polluted, let’s go back and stop the river being polluted!!!!!! The Time Line technique is very efficient in resolving many problems and for personal improvement. The Time Line represents a metaphor on the basis that a person may reorganise his/ her memory and his/ her way of reacting in the present. The Time Line allows us to set fire to the way we envision that life should be led, obtain awareness of it, and intervene in such a way to improve how we live our past memories and to “build our bricks in the best way to construct how we want our future to be”. I bet everyone has heard someone using the expressions, “I’ve put my past behind me” or “I see a successful future ahead of me”. It is nothing other than giving space to something that does not exist anywhere else than in your head. “Time is perception, it is memory!” “Time is contained in the present and inside it there is everything you can hope for, complete and understand. Wherever you are, that place holds all places and whatever distance you travel, embrace all distances”. (Gibran) One of the characteristics of Time Line is that it is not necessary to repeat it and it only works if the subject really wants to leave a negative state of mind. The first thing that the operator needs to do is to elicit the time line, in other words make it visible. Individualize, in the space surrounding him, the arrangement of images relative to various times of his/ her life until a line is created that connects past, present and future events. These should make him/ her realise that when s/he thinks of his/ her future or his/ her past, s/he is able to arrange them in the space around him/ her, defining direction and distance. TIME LINE EXTRACTION If you had to indicate where you could find your past in the space around you, where would you put it? Point to it with your finger. And where is your future? Now think of something you did yesterday. OK? Now think of something you will do tomorrow. OK? Do you notice that there can be a difference between the two images? What is the difference? Now think of something you did one year ago. Now think of something you will do in a few years time. Where would you put them? Join the points with an imaginary line. Make them realise it exists and it is managed at an unconscious level. At this point, once the time line has been extracted, it can be used in various ways: to eliminate a state of mind, to help anxiety, to help with the realisation of an objective, and so on. HOW TO USE THE TIME LINE Climb on top of the time line. Go ahead a bit, after the original event is finished. Go above the event and start teaching. Go before the event. Go above and through the event and let the sensation go, maintaining the teaching. Return to the present, letting go of all the sensations of successive events. Control and pace the future (go into the future maintaining this state of mind). Return to the present. The subject feels great!!!!! To maintain learning and to ensure long-term results, the following questions can also be asked: What does all this teach you? If you spoke to your child what would you say to him/ her? A QUICK TIME LINE EXERCISE CLOSE YOUR EYES. CLOSE THE BLOCK WE ONCE HAD INTO A FIST. THEN THINK OF WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE NEEDED AND SQUEEZE IT IN THE OTHER FIST. THEN SQUEEZE BOTH FISTS AT THE SAME TIME. YOU WILL FEEL AN EMOTIONAL CHARGE. Like all metaphors of reality, the time line is just an instrument that guides people to make changes in the way they perceive the world and themselves. Its main advantage is in its ability to project the person into the hypothetical future, making him/ her live possible future situations beforehand. There is also the ability to take him/ her into past times to reconstruct them in an opportune way. To be able to use the time line, however, it is necessary to understand the subject in a deeper way and to be helped by an NLP expert, for initially, you could meet with difficulty travelling along it. When you are able to pass over all of your time line, starting from the beginning of the past until arriving ahead of the future, observing all past experiences and all those yet to be experienced, which will be many more and even more satisfactory, useful and happy, you will be aware of the ability to control your life. Every time you travel on the time line with pleasurable feelings of internal capacity, you will come back to the present. You will open your eyes and you will see a more exciting present and you will feel definitely more in shape to immediately start a busy and inviting future that waits for you. PHOBIA TECHNIQUES (Cinema technique) The above technique is very useful for phobias and fears. It relies on the presumption that a phobia is a learning process or a block. In other words, how we interpret reality after having learned a negative suggestion. We can easily re-program mental images in order to overcome any type of phobia. “The Map isn’t the land”. Localize the traumatic event by finding it on the Time Line. Do this in a dissociated manner, without any emotional involvement. Identify a peaceful state before the event. Identify peaceful states after the event. Imagine you are in the projection room of a cinema and you are looking at the nape of the neck of another “you” sitting down in the stalls watching the film. You do not see the film being projected, you see yourself. The film is in black and white with circus music playing. The lights go on. You associate yourself as an actor and you are in the film while the montage sequences quickly rewind in color. Make the film run again in black and white (it gives an idea of oldness and has less emotional impact) while you go back to looking at the nape of your other self. Then go back to being an actor while the sequences are quickly rewound in color. Repeat various times.