United with passion and positivism, they are the best conditions to learn NPL in the best way possible. Minds that work well are those that produce satisfactory results which are also visible to others!!!! Milton Erickson was a hymn to life! To be able to overcome his difficulties he found himself faced with a challenge, and the result of his challenge was Neuro-linguistic programming. In fact, the first NLP originated from the comprehension. It was carried out by a study group at the Santa Cruz University (California) and its strategies have been used by many successful communicators. The modeling of M. Erikson played a fundamental role in this development. We are the ones who, being born and raised in a culture which considers life a “valley of tears”, think that the moment something good happens, it is down to good luck. A dull life, without emotions or memorable events, is considered normal. Thus, with this widespread conviction, it becomes logical that existence continues in this “dullness”, because the brain is a learning machine and energy follows thought. In other words, we allow ourselves to be driven between euphoria and sadness when in reality we are the owners of the way we think. Think positive and exciting thoughts if you want to have a happy and stimulating life! Think negative thoughts and you will have a life full of troubles and regrets. NLP is also an attitude, a means to positive living, optimistic, winning… etc. It teaches us how to change that which prevents us from advancing, transforming difficulties into opportunities of progression. It helps us to concentrate on objectives and to find the right way to achieve them. It increases our self-confidence, turning internal images and sensations into something positive. It unfurls with all its strength the potential that is in all of us but which we often ignore. It helps to improve our relationships with others because it puts us in a condition to better observe and fully understand the person with which we are speaking. Originated in America during the 70s, it provides us with a series of successful methods, enabling us to achieve our objectives in all those areas in which communication is fundamental: sentimental, professional, sales, family harmony, etc. In the following years, other models were created that leaned towards the new direction of NLP 3. PRODUCTIVE BELIEF At a higher level of understanding of this subject, everyone can learn to give the right importance to their beliefs, however on this journey it is important to begin with the productive belief. There are beliefs, which I want to bring to your attention: THE MAIN PURPOSE IN LIFE IS NOT THE KNOWLEDGE OF ONESELF BUT ACTION!!!!!!! MAN DOES NOT EQUAL WHAT S/HE HAS BUT EVERYTHING THAT S/HE DOES NOT YET HAVE BUT COULD HAVE!!!!!!! THERE ARE NO FAILURES, ONLY RESULTS!!!!!!! MAN IS AN ANTENNA THAT CAPTURES AND TRANSMITS; IT CAPTURES WHAT S/HE WANTS AND TRANSMITS WHO S/HE IS!!!!!!!! MAN IS NOT A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCE, CIRCUMSTANCE IS A CREATURE OF MAN!!!!!! THE ESSENCE OF MAN IS IN WHAT HE THINKS!!!!!!! THE PILLARS OF SUCCESS ARE: MOTIVATION AND POSITIVE THOUGHT!!!!!! ENTHUSIASM IS FUNDAMENTAL!!!!!!!!! These beliefs can be useful in the beginning to model your development. If you want to really achieve an aim, you will need, above all, to be sure that your motivation is strong enough to get you the wanted results. “A strong enough reason will give you the necessary know how!!!!! !” The basis of any success is strong motivation, without this push nothing will happen. Therefore, if you want to achieve your aim, you need to continually keep the fire of enthusiasm inside of you alive. Visualize yourself at the end of your goal!!!!!! NLP does not teach anything, it enters into our emotional turmoil, into our sophisticated learning processes, in what we do to construct, destroy and transform. It is unleashed and free from conditioning. Some people can undertake these techniques as a habit of mind while others use them as instruments. Try it; if it works, keep it; if it does no’t work, throw it away. That would be an ATTITUDE!!!!!! Provatela , se funziona tenetela , se non funziona buttatela via, e questo sarebbe un atteggiamento piennellistico!!!!!!!! IT’S NOT IMPORTANT FROM WHERE YOU BEGIN. WHAT COUNTS IS WHERE YOU WANT TO ARRIVE. THE ONLY HURDLE IN ACHIEVING THESE OBJECTIVES IS THE IDEA OF NOT BEING ABLE TO GET THERE.......YOUR MIND IS A DISASTER, CONCENTRATE ON WHAT YOU WANT AND YOU WILL GET IT!!!!!!!! However, remember that it is not enough to think about what it is that you would like to obtain; you need to visualize, believe in yourself and above all, make sure that it really is what you want. Avoid wasting energy passing from one thought to another, limiting yourself to dreaming about what will happen. We can live our dreams and this happens when we really concentrate on realizing our objectives or when we want to change certain aspects of our life which we do not like. “Concentration is like a laser beam that can pass through any obstacle”. (Anthony Robbins) Many people do not manage to get what they want, simply because they do not focus their attention on a single aspect but grope around in their minds from one thought to another. “There is only one part of the Universe that you can be sure to improve and that part is you!” (Aldus Huxley) Towards the end of this book some NLP techniques are reported for various aims. NLP & NLP 3 NLP 3 represents a step up in knowledge from NPL. Given its introductory character, this guide does not refer to any information regarding it. If you would like further information, please visit our website www.neurolinguistic.com or call us on 00 39 348-2213449. PART 2: INSTANT RAPPORT “The ability to live magical relationships starts and finishes with you”. (W.W. Dyer) Let us continue our wonderful journey into the human potential and take a look at a new technology called “instant rapport”. A rapport is the process by which one constructs and maintains good interpersonal relations with reciprocal trust and agreement. At the same time, it is a moment of responsible and delicate consideration. Every day we find ourselves in situations in which we establish a rapport with those around us. Let us call “Instant Rapport” a technique that collects methods and useful approaches to create such a state of mind. Instant Rapport also analyzes the reasons behind why a rapport is sometimes not easy. The answer is: beliefs and attitudes limit us. The uses of “Instant Rapport” are also therapeutic, for many problems come from relationship problems. In some cases, a rapport comes spontaneously and you create a harmony, a feeling that is almost mysterious. Studies, conducted on the basis of video recordings, have shown that in reality, activated unconscious mechanisms have, at a sublimely level, created this immediate rapport. For example, you have definitely once met a person and, not knowing anything about him, have made comments such as: “He is nice; I can feel it in my bones” or “Even though I’ve just met him, we get on well”. This happens when the rapport is triggered spontaneously, therefore, we have two people who unconsciously move their bodies in the same way, have the same gestures, walk alike, which in NLP terms takes the name of “Mirroring” a method that you use when you want to create a rapport. Mirroring is one of the simplest methods and, at the same time, the starting point to putting ourselves on the same level as our interlocutor so as to enter into a positive relationship with him/ her. Not everyone has a personality or mind open enough to immediately enter into harmony with an unknown, maybe because of past experiences or a present state of mind. Therefore, it sometimes takes a long time to accept a calm dialogue with another person. We can, therefore, decide to shorten this time using the mirroring technique and create a positive, emphatic rapport. “It is important to enter into the other’s world, if we want to bring him into ours!!!! !” When you establish that special understanding between two people, one of them will unconsciously and more easily respond in a positive way to the other’s stimulation. By way of mirroring, we send back to the interlocutor, with our behavior, the same way of behaving that belongs to his/ her pattern of the world. You become a mirror of the other, for example: legs crossed during a conversation, fingers of one hand entwined with the other. This is carried out until you arrive at the same tone of voice and level of breathing, which are two of the most powerful mirrors. It is enough to think of a baby that sleeps in the arms of its mother because her breathing makes it feel safe. All this is perceived by the unconscious of our interlocutor as similarity and/ or affinity. It is amazing how “brick walls” can be brought down if we learn to listen, observe and feel others. Mirroring means entering into harmony with respect and delicacy without invading or annoying. This method has the advantage of creating a rapport, without necessarily knowing the way which the individual lives his/ her life or sharing it. To have this ability can, for example, positively affect a clinical interview, a school test, a sale or a simple discussion. Some examples of things to mirror are: Posture: Is it tense or relaxed? Is the body leaning forwards or backwards? How are the hands, arms and legs placed? Breathing: Is his/ her breathing thoracic or abdominal? Is the rhythm slow, quick or calm? With what intensity is s/he breathing (Deep or shallow)? Movements: What are his/ her gestures? What does s/he do with the hands? How does s/he move the head (for example: does he nod while speaking)? Way of speaking: Is the tone of voice deep or shrill? What rhythm does his/ her voice have? Does he use slang? How quickly does he speak? If you want to establish a long-term rapport, you need to identify the things that are important to a person, or his/ her values. What you should keep in mind is to avoid discussions that could bring a difference in opinion before you have established a good rapport, otherwise, the rapport will inevitably break. Another important thing is that at the time in which the verbal conversation takes over, you need to eliminate negative terms, better known as negative expressions, because we risk sending the opposite message to what we want to send (see the explanation in the communication rapport paragraph). This refers to a normal conversation and not during a therapy session. Example: “I don’t want to lose you!” Our brain decodes the message as, “I want to lose you!” Once we have established a rapport with CNV, we should be careful about the language we use, which is normally very confused, in such a way to refine it and make it suitable to what we want to transmit. The next level consists of trying to understand what type of internal change is needed to help maintain a “rapport” in a better way.