There are beliefs, which I want to bring to your attention: THE MAIN PURPOSE IN LIFE IS NOT THE KNOWLEDGE OF ONESELF BUT ACTION!!!!!!! MAN DOES NOT EQUAL WHAT S/HE HAS BUT EVERYTHING THAT S/HE DOES NOT YET HAVE BUT COULD HAVE!!!!!!! THERE ARE NO FAILURES, ONLY RESULTS!!!!!!! MAN IS AN ANTENNA THAT CAPTURES AND TRANSMITS; IT CAPTURES WHAT S/HE WANTS AND TRANSMITS WHO S/HE IS!!!!!!!! MAN IS NOT A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCE, CIRCUMSTANCE IS A CREATURE OF MAN!!!!!! THE ESSENCE OF MAN IS IN WHAT HE THINKS!!!!!!! THE PILLARS OF SUCCESS ARE: MOTIVATION AND POSITIVE THOUGHT!!!!!! ENTHUSIASM IS FUNDAMENTAL!!!!!!!!! These beliefs can be useful in the beginning to model your development. If you want to really achieve an aim, you will need, above all, to be sure that your motivation is strong enough to get you the wanted results. “A strong enough reason will give you the necessary know how!!!!! !” The basis of any success is strong motivation, without this push nothing will happen. Therefore, if you want to achieve your aim, you need to continually keep the fire of enthusiasm inside of you alive. Visualize yourself at the end of your goal!!!!!! NLP does not teach anything, it enters into our emotional turmoil, into our sophisticated learning processes, in what we do to construct, destroy and transform. It is unleashed and free from conditioning. Some people can undertake these techniques as a habit of mind while others use them as instruments. Try it; if it works, keep it; if it does no’t work, throw it away. That would be an ATTITUDE!!!!!! Provatela , se funziona tenetela , se non funziona buttatela via, e questo sarebbe un atteggiamento piennellistico!!!!!!!! IT’S NOT IMPORTANT FROM WHERE YOU BEGIN. WHAT COUNTS IS WHERE YOU WANT TO ARRIVE. THE ONLY HURDLE IN ACHIEVING THESE OBJECTIVES IS THE IDEA OF NOT BEING ABLE TO GET THERE.......YOUR MIND IS A DISASTER, CONCENTRATE ON WHAT YOU WANT AND YOU WILL GET IT!!!!!!!! However, remember that it is not enough to think about what it is that you would like to obtain; you need to visualize, believe in yourself and above all, make sure that it really is what you want. Avoid wasting energy passing from one thought to another, limiting yourself to dreaming about what will happen. We can live our dreams and this happens when we really concentrate on realizing our objectives or when we want to change certain aspects of our life which we do not like. “Concentration is like a laser beam that can pass through any obstacle”. (Anthony Robbins) Many people do not manage to get what they want, simply because they do not focus their attention on a single aspect but grope around in their minds from one thought to another. “There is only one part of the Universe that you can be sure to improve and that part is you!” (Aldus Huxley) Towards the end of this book some NLP techniques are reported for various aims. NLP & NLP 3 NLP 3 represents a step up in knowledge from NPL. Given its introductory character, this guide does not refer to any information regarding it. If you would like further information, please visit our website www.neurolinguistic.com or call us on 00 39 348-2213449. PART 2: INSTANT RAPPORT “The ability to live magical relationships starts and finishes with you”. (W.W. Dyer) Let us continue our wonderful journey into the human potential and take a look at a new technology called “instant rapport”. A rapport is the process by which one constructs and maintains good interpersonal relations with reciprocal trust and agreement. At the same time, it is a moment of responsible and delicate consideration. Every day we find ourselves in situations in which we establish a rapport with those around us. Let us call “Instant Rapport” a technique that collects methods and useful approaches to create such a state of mind. Instant Rapport also analyzes the reasons behind why a rapport is sometimes not easy. The answer is: beliefs and attitudes limit us. The uses of “Instant Rapport” are also therapeutic, for many problems come from relationship problems. In some cases, a rapport comes spontaneously and you create a harmony, a feeling that is almost mysterious. Studies, conducted on the basis of video recordings, have shown that in reality, activated unconscious mechanisms have, at a sublimely level, created this immediate rapport. For example, you have definitely once met a person and, not knowing anything about him, have made comments such as: “He is nice; I can feel it in my bones” or “Even though I’ve just met him, we get on well”. This happens when the rapport is triggered spontaneously, therefore, we have two people who unconsciously move their bodies in the same way, have the same gestures, walk alike, which in NLP terms takes the name of “Mirroring” a method that you use when you want to create a rapport. Mirroring is one of the simplest methods and, at the same time, the starting point to putting ourselves on the same level as our interlocutor so as to enter into a positive relationship with him/ her. Not everyone has a personality or mind open enough to immediately enter into harmony with an unknown, maybe because of past experiences or a present state of mind. Therefore, it sometimes takes a long time to accept a calm dialogue with another person. We can, therefore, decide to shorten this time using the mirroring technique and create a positive, emphatic rapport. “It is important to enter into the other’s world, if we want to bring him into ours!!!! !” When you establish that special understanding between two people, one of them will unconsciously and more easily respond in a positive way to the other’s stimulation. By way of mirroring, we send back to the interlocutor, with our behavior, the same way of behaving that belongs to his/ her pattern of the world. You become a mirror of the other, for example: legs crossed during a conversation, fingers of one hand entwined with the other. This is carried out until you arrive at the same tone of voice and level of breathing, which are two of the most powerful mirrors. It is enough to think of a baby that sleeps in the arms of its mother because her breathing makes it feel safe. All this is perceived by the unconscious of our interlocutor as similarity and/ or affinity. It is amazing how “brick walls” can be brought down if we learn to listen, observe and feel others. Mirroring means entering into harmony with respect and delicacy without invading or annoying. This method has the advantage of creating a rapport, without necessarily knowing the way which the individual lives his/ her life or sharing it. To have this ability can, for example, positively affect a clinical interview, a school test, a sale or a simple discussion. Some examples of things to mirror are: Posture: Is it tense or relaxed? Is the body leaning forwards or backwards? How are the hands, arms and legs placed? Breathing: Is his/ her breathing thoracic or abdominal? Is the rhythm slow, quick or calm? With what intensity is s/he breathing (Deep or shallow)? Movements: What are his/ her gestures? What does s/he do with the hands? How does s/he move the head (for example: does he nod while speaking)? Way of speaking: Is the tone of voice deep or shrill? What rhythm does his/ her voice have? Does he use slang? How quickly does he speak? If you want to establish a long-term rapport, you need to identify the things that are important to a person, or his/ her values. What you should keep in mind is to avoid discussions that could bring a difference in opinion before you have established a good rapport, otherwise, the rapport will inevitably break. Another important thing is that at the time in which the verbal conversation takes over, you need to eliminate negative terms, better known as negative expressions, because we risk sending the opposite message to what we want to send (see the explanation in the communication rapport paragraph). This refers to a normal conversation and not during a therapy session. Example: “I don’t want to lose you!” Our brain decodes the message as, “I want to lose you!” Once we have established a rapport with CNV, we should be careful about the language we use, which is normally very confused, in such a way to refine it and make it suitable to what we want to transmit. The next level consists of trying to understand what type of internal change is needed to help maintain a “rapport” in a better way. In fact, we need to add an understanding of our interior reality to our understanding of exterior gestures so as to make the achievement of this easier. PART THREE: NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION What we mean by Non-Verbal Communication is gesturing, mimicking and all other human expressions that are abstracted from words. Along with hypnosis, the theory and practice of Non-Verbal Communication are probably among the most antique of the subjects discussed in this guide. At the same time, they are among those which modern research has the most information about. The fundamental languages that allow us to relate to others are: 1. VERBAL LANGUAGE made up of words which serve to transmit information. 2. NON-VERBAL LANGUAGE with which we express our internal emotions, using gestures, behavior and silence. Some studies have shown that in an interpersonal communication, the message is only transmitted using 7% of words and 38% from the tone of voice, while 55% is communicated using body language. This differs when using the telephone, in fact in this case, that 38% becomes 100% of the communication. Mirabeau wrote: “Words were given to man to hide his thoughts”. Example: If we ask someone how they are and they reply “fine” followed by a clearing of the throat, it means that they are lying. Body language tells the truth and often betrays what we say with words. It is the natural way of expressing our state of mind and it can bring us into direct contact with our deepest emotions: fear, anxiety and joy, which are directly transmitted by our hands, legs and facial muscles. Our mind can decide whether or not to express verbally these sensations or emotions, but we are aware that it is sometimes better to keep quiet. For example, we can say that we are not annoyed but a small, involuntary gesture by our body can give away what we are saying, though normally, nobody pays attention. There are various ways of classifying different states of mind and, for practical purposes, it is useful to focalize on some in particular in order to understand our communication with another individual, whatever the relationship may be. These are: 1. ATTENTION 2. INTEREST 3. PLEASURE 4. REFLECTIVENESS What are the gestures that accompany each of these states?