These should make him/ her realise that when s/he thinks of his/ her future or his/ her past, s/he is able to arrange them in the space around him/ her, defining direction and distance. TIME LINE EXTRACTION If you had to indicate where you could find your past in the space around you, where would you put it? Point to it with your finger. And where is your future? Now think of something you did yesterday. OK? Now think of something you will do tomorrow. OK? Do you notice that there can be a difference between the two images? What is the difference? Now think of something you did one year ago. Now think of something you will do in a few years time. Where would you put them? Join the points with an imaginary line. Make them realise it exists and it is managed at an unconscious level. At this point, once the time line has been extracted, it can be used in various ways: to eliminate a state of mind, to help anxiety, to help with the realisation of an objective, and so on. HOW TO USE THE TIME LINE Climb on top of the time line. Go ahead a bit, after the original event is finished. Go above the event and start teaching. Go before the event. Go above and through the event and let the sensation go, maintaining the teaching. Return to the present, letting go of all the sensations of successive events. Control and pace the future (go into the future maintaining this state of mind). Return to the present. The subject feels great!!!!! To maintain learning and to ensure long-term results, the following questions can also be asked: What does all this teach you? If you spoke to your child what would you say to him/ her? A QUICK TIME LINE EXERCISE CLOSE YOUR EYES. CLOSE THE BLOCK WE ONCE HAD INTO A FIST. THEN THINK OF WHAT YOU WOULD HAVE NEEDED AND SQUEEZE IT IN THE OTHER FIST. THEN SQUEEZE BOTH FISTS AT THE SAME TIME. YOU WILL FEEL AN EMOTIONAL CHARGE. Like all metaphors of reality, the time line is just an instrument that guides people to make changes in the way they perceive the world and themselves. Its main advantage is in its ability to project the person into the hypothetical future, making him/ her live possible future situations beforehand. There is also the ability to take him/ her into past times to reconstruct them in an opportune way. To be able to use the time line, however, it is necessary to understand the subject in a deeper way and to be helped by an NLP expert, for initially, you could meet with difficulty travelling along it. When you are able to pass over all of your time line, starting from the beginning of the past until arriving ahead of the future, observing all past experiences and all those yet to be experienced, which will be many more and even more satisfactory, useful and happy, you will be aware of the ability to control your life. Every time you travel on the time line with pleasurable feelings of internal capacity, you will come back to the present. You will open your eyes and you will see a more exciting present and you will feel definitely more in shape to immediately start a busy and inviting future that waits for you. PHOBIA TECHNIQUES (Cinema technique) The above technique is very useful for phobias and fears. It relies on the presumption that a phobia is a learning process or a block. In other words, how we interpret reality after having learned a negative suggestion. We can easily re-program mental images in order to overcome any type of phobia. “The Map isn’t the land”. Localize the traumatic event by finding it on the Time Line. Do this in a dissociated manner, without any emotional involvement. Identify a peaceful state before the event. Identify peaceful states after the event. Imagine you are in the projection room of a cinema and you are looking at the nape of the neck of another “you” sitting down in the stalls watching the film. You do not see the film being projected, you see yourself. The film is in black and white with circus music playing. The lights go on. You associate yourself as an actor and you are in the film while the montage sequences quickly rewind in color. Make the film run again in black and white (it gives an idea of oldness and has less emotional impact) while you go back to looking at the nape of your other self. Then go back to being an actor while the sequences are quickly rewound in color. Repeat various times. Ocular desensitization technique This technique is useful as reinforcement after having carried out the cinema technique. Go to the event that produced the phobia and take a mental photograph. Place the photo on your finger. Move your finger from left to right to the sound of circus music. Repeat until you eliminate it. Anxiety Techniques Anxiety is an idea not a reality!!!!! We are in fact anxious for things that have not yet happened and probably never will! PROCEDURE Go beyond the time line into the future, after the positive conclusion of the event. Feel the sensation. Come back to the present. If the anxiety does not disappear, then you will need to restructure it: “I know there is a part of you that thinks that it is important to have a little bit of anxiety to motivate yourself and I agree that it is important to be motivated, the problem is that anxiety isn’t good for the body. Are there other ways in which it is possible to be motivated and let go of the anxiety?” Some people, instead of motivating themselves with positive thoughts, motivate themselves with negative ones. The above technique can be also useful to change this. MOTIVATING YOURSELF WITH FEAR IS NEGATIVE BECAUSE IT IS DESTRUCTIVE “Fear knocked on my door, faith opened the door and there was no one there”. (Skip Ross) SHUFFLING Shuffles are anchors that create movement towards a desirable future. We install choices for a new way of living The following procedure explains the Shuffling technique: Imagine your desired behavior or the type of person you would like to be. If this state had an image where would you put it? Where are the things that make you feel safe? Take the old image and push it away until it becomes a little dot. (Helping yourself with your finger). Make the positive image come back from the little dot into the place where the safe things are. Repeat, pausing between each time, open and close the eyes and repeat seven times. N.B. Make sure you have a detailed representation of your desired state These are only some of the techniques used by Neuro-Linguistic Programming and from what you have been able to gather, it is clear that the person who turns to an NLP technician remains partly active. In fact, unlike traditional therapies, NLP provides you with the tools in order that you can consciously work on yourself in a quick and dynamic way. With the NLP model, one is interested in the process that leads to the final result. Bandler and Grinder defined personality as “choice”, meaning that instead of concentrating on which function of the ego is being activated, by whom and for what reason, attention should be aimed at how many choices that person has available at that time. It is not necessary to classify a subject’s experience or re-live infant traumas to be able to change a behavioral aspect. The person can decide which behavior to modify, having at hand all the necessary tools with which to change. Although when necessary, especially at the beginning, this should be done with the help of the operator. Erickson, the best hypnotist of our times, never solved a problem in the traditional way. His way of applying therapy was astonishing. He used revolutionary techniques that were extremely efficient and he used different methods on different people, so that for a long time it was not possible to write anything about him or identify him with a particular type of therapy as had happened with other psychoanalysts. He agreed that he did not have a particular method; he compared himself to an artist and said, “When an artist paints he needs to be inspired. The same thing happens to me when I find myself faced with a problem. I decide in that moment what to do”. In each case the most important element in Erickson’s therapeutic practice was his use of instructive stories, anecdotes and riddles, for example, to overcome habitual limits, he used stories to expand peoples’ minds. THE BASIC METHOD USED BY Erickson in therapy was the “Symptom Prescription”, creating the way for small changes that were seen as the problem uptil that moment. It is something that prevents development, therefore, a behavior that springs up independently from will is prescribed at this point. Thus, the mind processes everything in a different way and the symptom or block goes away. This is only one example to let you understand how NLP is different from that of traditional psychoanalyses, a fact that cannot be questioned. However, if you had to achieve an internal re-harmonizing objective or overcome a problem and you had to choose between two paths (one which was shorter and easier the other longer and sometimes with signs that often told you to turn back and start your sometimes torturous and painful journey again), which would you choose? Just think that during a psychotherapy session where NLP techniques are applied, you do not need to tell your life story or whatever it was that brought you to have the problem or block in the first place. It is important to understand what it is that we want to free ourselves from or the behavior we want to change and act on. It is not important to dig around in the past looking for the cause of the behavior we want to change.