Not everyone has a personality or mind open enough to immediately enter into harmony with an unknown, maybe because of past experiences or a present state of mind. Therefore, it sometimes takes a long time to accept a calm dialogue with another person. We can, therefore, decide to shorten this time using the mirroring technique and create a positive, emphatic rapport. “It is important to enter into the other’s world, if we want to bring him into ours!!!! !” When you establish that special understanding between two people, one of them will unconsciously and more easily respond in a positive way to the other’s stimulation. By way of mirroring, we send back to the interlocutor, with our behavior, the same way of behaving that belongs to his/ her pattern of the world. You become a mirror of the other, for example: legs crossed during a conversation, fingers of one hand entwined with the other. This is carried out until you arrive at the same tone of voice and level of breathing, which are two of the most powerful mirrors. It is enough to think of a baby that sleeps in the arms of its mother because her breathing makes it feel safe. All this is perceived by the unconscious of our interlocutor as similarity and/ or affinity. It is amazing how “brick walls” can be brought down if we learn to listen, observe and feel others. Mirroring means entering into harmony with respect and delicacy without invading or annoying. This method has the advantage of creating a rapport, without necessarily knowing the way which the individual lives his/ her life or sharing it. To have this ability can, for example, positively affect a clinical interview, a school test, a sale or a simple discussion. Some examples of things to mirror are: Posture: Is it tense or relaxed? Is the body leaning forwards or backwards? How are the hands, arms and legs placed? Breathing: Is his/ her breathing thoracic or abdominal? Is the rhythm slow, quick or calm? With what intensity is s/he breathing (Deep or shallow)? Movements: What are his/ her gestures? What does s/he do with the hands? How does s/he move the head (for example: does he nod while speaking)? Way of speaking: Is the tone of voice deep or shrill? What rhythm does his/ her voice have? Does he use slang? How quickly does he speak? If you want to establish a long-term rapport, you need to identify the things that are important to a person, or his/ her values. What you should keep in mind is to avoid discussions that could bring a difference in opinion before you have established a good rapport, otherwise, the rapport will inevitably break. Another important thing is that at the time in which the verbal conversation takes over, you need to eliminate negative terms, better known as negative expressions, because we risk sending the opposite message to what we want to send (see the explanation in the communication rapport paragraph). This refers to a normal conversation and not during a therapy session. Example: “I don’t want to lose you!” Our brain decodes the message as, “I want to lose you!” Once we have established a rapport with CNV, we should be careful about the language we use, which is normally very confused, in such a way to refine it and make it suitable to what we want to transmit. The next level consists of trying to understand what type of internal change is needed to help maintain a “rapport” in a better way. In fact, we need to add an understanding of our interior reality to our understanding of exterior gestures so as to make the achievement of this easier. PART THREE: NON-VERBAL COMMUNICATION What we mean by Non-Verbal Communication is gesturing, mimicking and all other human expressions that are abstracted from words. Along with hypnosis, the theory and practice of Non-Verbal Communication are probably among the most antique of the subjects discussed in this guide. At the same time, they are among those which modern research has the most information about. The fundamental languages that allow us to relate to others are: 1. VERBAL LANGUAGE made up of words which serve to transmit information. 2. NON-VERBAL LANGUAGE with which we express our internal emotions, using gestures, behavior and silence. Some studies have shown that in an interpersonal communication, the message is only transmitted using 7% of words and 38% from the tone of voice, while 55% is communicated using body language. This differs when using the telephone, in fact in this case, that 38% becomes 100% of the communication. Mirabeau wrote: “Words were given to man to hide his thoughts”. Example: If we ask someone how they are and they reply “fine” followed by a clearing of the throat, it means that they are lying. Body language tells the truth and often betrays what we say with words. It is the natural way of expressing our state of mind and it can bring us into direct contact with our deepest emotions: fear, anxiety and joy, which are directly transmitted by our hands, legs and facial muscles. Our mind can decide whether or not to express verbally these sensations or emotions, but we are aware that it is sometimes better to keep quiet. For example, we can say that we are not annoyed but a small, involuntary gesture by our body can give away what we are saying, though normally, nobody pays attention. There are various ways of classifying different states of mind and, for practical purposes, it is useful to focalize on some in particular in order to understand our communication with another individual, whatever the relationship may be. These are: 1. ATTENTION 2. INTEREST 3. PLEASURE 4. REFLECTIVENESS What are the gestures that accompany each of these states? Pleasure, for example, is perceived by way of specific gestures. Remember that CNV is sensorially demonstrated and it is so inherent in man that it can’t be conditioned in anyway. SOME NON-VERBAL SIGNS The attention that a person shows during listening to someone else is shown by the body posture. For example, leaning the chest forward is a sign of attention. Pleasure is connected to the lips and to the so-called analogical kisses. Biting the lips means: “I would like to but I can’t” The tongue is an indicator of strong pleasure towards the person, the subject being discussed, or the situation. Playing around with a ring, a bracelet,… etc., indicates interest. Running fingers through the hair is connected to the desire to be involved. Interest is connected to olfaction except when you rub under the nostrils with a finger. Attention is connected to the leaning forward of the chest. Reflection is an internal dialogue and it manifests itself by tiny movements of the circular kind, like when you touch your ear. When you touch your chin you are being even more reflective. EMOTIONAL UNBURDENING Emotional unburdening can be highlighted by way of three elements: 1. CRYING OR LAUGHING, which reduces tension. 2. SWALLOWING which is tied to emotional states, a sign of something you like that you cannot have but would like to have. 3. THROAT CLEARING more common among smokers, very useful in therapy. One is able to extrapolate a person’s doubts. (For example: you ask a question to the interlocutor and after they have replied they clear their throat). VALUES Our behavior is tied to our values. Thanks to the observation of their emotional replies, Non-Verbal Communication allows us to see when we are getting close to a person’s most important value. There are specific questions that allow us to identify (the technical term is “elicit”) values. Both in therapy and in disputes, when we want to understand a person in order to have a clearer idea, we need to know what he focuses on, what motivates him, what is in his head at the moment. Questions to ask could be: 1. What do you focus on? 2. What motivates you? 3. What are you mainly doing? 4. Where do you think you will be in the future? (This question is useful in understanding the degree of self-confidence, decisions and attitudes). 5. What is important to you? (A question that allows us to understand a person’s values) 6. What exactly does that mean? COMMUNICATION STYLES The signs just highlighted are then connected to a specific “communication style”. Hand movements can be of great help in this area. While the person is talking or answering our questions, if we are focused and we pay attention to hand gestures, we can understand more. A famous family therapist, Virginia Satir, has identified three types of persons: 1. THE BLAMER: When adopting this style, the person is very active, tends to impose himself/ herself, focalizes on himself/ herself, decisive, determined, and his her hand movements are cutting or finger-pointing. S/he uses imperatives or generalizations. 2. THE COMPUTER: Hand movements are rotatory and reflexive. While speaking, s/he enumerations like: “Given that” and “because”.