Even if the hypnotist tries, the subject will not carry out the order given or might even decide to come out of the hypnotic trance, refusing to continue. Hypnotism, even if triggered by another person, is essentially “autogenous” in the sense that it uses an absolutely natural functioning process of our psyche. It may seem ridiculous to think that- if up until now we were convinced that life was a succession of happenings- that we need to prepare ourselves to live. Now we can see things from another prospective and say that: Life changes at the moment in which we change and we can consider ourselves as protagonists of our life without having to content ourselves with the walk-on parts or be forced to live by life. Perhaps arriving at the foot of the page and writing the words “The End” makes us realize that what we see behind us is not our story, what we would have wanted, and regret not having obtained what it was that we wanted because we have been the obstacle. “Life is something that happens to us while we are busy doing other things”. (Anthony De Mello) “Whatever you want to do, or dream of, start it, audacity has talent, power and magic” (Goethe) EXAMPLES OF HYPNOTIC MODELS AND METHODS – INTRODUCTION TO HYPNOTIC COMMUNICATION Negative orders One of the simplest hypnotic communication models is “negative orders” For example: If I say to you, “don’t think about summer”, you will automatically be forced to think about it in order to understand my statement. Starting with a negation means that the listener does not sense any pressure to act. We often use this negative order model without knowing and we get an undesired reaction. For example: Don’t worry.....Don’t be jealous.......Nothing bad is going to happen. Whoever is listening, in some way, has to interpret the undesired behaviour to be able to understand what has been said to him, and this increases the possibility of this same behaviour happening. Without knowing it, these people hypnotize the subject and end up having undesirable reactions. The same model may be used to get more useful reactions from people, which are found in a trance-like state or not. For example: Don’t be curious to know what I feel about you! Hypnosis can be used both in personal or professional scopes, in fact, it is useful for sorting out problems or eliminating all limits that we program in ourselves. Hypnotism is, therefore, used to stop smoking, lose weight, heal fears, get rid off phobias… etc. Additionally, it may be used in a more creative way, to continually grow your abilities and your choices in life. It helps you to learn how to improve what you already do well. Hypnosis is a group of instruments that help us to improve the quality of our life and the relationship that we have with ourselves. The aim is to be able to create an internal situation in which the subject can access transformation processes. If you have a collection of mechanical tools, it doesn’t mean that you are capable of fixing a car! The use of a series of Hypnotic Communication Models can pave the way to creating a: HYPNOTIC INDUCTION What I am about to illustrate is a simple hypnotic induction based on the Erickson model that you can carry out on another person to create a state of profound relaxation. HYPNOTIC INDUCTION BASED ON PACE AND LEADING Before starting, remember to physically pace the subject to establish a condition of trust or in other words rapport. Above all, imitate respiration. Speak while the subject is exhaling. Place yourself in front of him to be able to better observe his reactions. And now while you are sitting down, and you are in front of me, and you can listen to my words, and you can hear noises that come from outside, I don’t know if you realize....... (pause) that something inside of you is changing. And while something inside you is changing, you can feel the temperature of the room, and the sensation of your feet touching the ground, I don’t know if you realize that your breathing is becoming calmer, and with every breath you are relaxing even more And while you can relax, and while you can feel the sensation of your closed eyes, I ask myself if you realize you can cradle yourself in a feeling of relaxation. And you can imagine being even more relaxed, and while you can feel the weight of your body, you can imagine how to enter in to a peaceful cloud, and you can feel that some parts of your body are relaxed and others can be even more relaxed, and you can let yourself be cradled in this feeling, and let yourself slide deeper into a feeling of sleepiness, I don’t know if you realize you can be even calmer than you think you can be. You can feel the air that passes through your nostrils, you can feel the touch of your clothes against your skin, and go further, my voice will accompany you. At this point, the subject is in a light, “trance-like” state; we can continue with the stairway suggestion to make him go into a deeper state of relaxation. “THE STAIRWAY” And while you relax, you can imagine being at the top of a magnificent stairway, and while you are at the top of this stairway, I’ll count from ten down to one and with every number you can imagine going down towards the bottom. Ten, at the top of the stairs ready to go down into a deeper sleep for ever. Nine, another step takes you further down, as if in a cloud of peace, a sweet and relaxing cloud. Eight takes you even more towards the bottom, further down, in an ever deepening feeling, falling even more asleep. Seven, seven is your relaxing number; and every time you hear it you will relax even more. Six, another step, another step downwards, towards the bottom. Five, almost completely asleep, cradled in a feeling of deep peace Four, another relaxing step; when we get to the bottom of the staircase you will be completely asleep. Three, let yourself be cradled by your feelings, sinking even further. Two, a step away from being completely asleep, a more pleasing feeling forever. One, completely asleep, in a feeling of complete wellness. Zero, further down than the bottom, calm, asleep and at peace with yourself. Now... you feel emotionally, spiritually, and intellectually well. Now I’ll count from 3 to 1 and when you awake you will feel relaxed and well. 3 you feel well 2 you have a feeling of happiness. 1 Open your eyes and smile! While carrying out a hypnotic induction, there are some indicators that allow us to understand if the subject is in a “trance-like” state: Decrease in muscle tone; Deeper breathing; Involuntary movement of the pupils; Increase in hand sweating; and Altering of facial symmetry. Obviously, it should be said that this type of induction is used to deeply relax the subject and to make him/ her enter into a state of peace and well-being before starting with other hypnotic techniques, used for example to: Create a new behavioural model; Alter confirmed habits; Develop energy; …etc. Hypnotic techniques are an amplification of our desires! AUTO HYPNOSIS SELF-HYPNOSIS is a very efficient technique; it can be applied to resolve disturbances that are part of everyday life such as: anxiety, tension, stress, bad habits… etc. As well as resolving problems, it is useful for increasing our ability and it can help us to follow particular objectives. For example, to understand how efficient SELF-HYPNOSIS can be, just think that it has been established that the most famous geniuses in history, like Einstein, Edison… etc, owe their discoveries to their ability to put themselves, unknowingly, in a state of SELF-HYPNOSIS, using the inexhaustible possibilities of the subconscious, considered the stem of discovery, invention and success. SELF-HYPNOSIS allows you to focus your attention on what you desire, for example to be calm, serene, concentrated, and attent, with the mind empty or totally occupied in an activity chosen by us. All this happens in a condition of absolute freedom from external influences and insignificant thoughts. With this method, we can face exams with security, develop or abandon certain habits… etc. “The only thing that imprisons you is your mind; the only thing that can free you is your mind!” (Sai Baba) There are two types of SELF-HYPNOSIS: western and eastern. The basic problem with SELF-HYPNOSIS is learning it correctly. Our school has created an educational technique that allows us to learn SELF-HYPNOSIS, in its two forms, in a very short time. WESTERN SELF-HYPNOSIS WESTERN SELF-HYPNOSIS MAINLY USES THE POWER OF SPEECH, AND NORMALLY DEMANDS THE USE OF THE CLASSIC HYPNOTIC TRANCE. It is important to have a well-formed objective. To be able to achieve it, you need to divide it into pieces, sensitizing it and focusing bit by bit. The objective needs to be: P positive E emotional, i.e. find motivational pleasure P present (only speak in the present, never in the past) S sensory (what you feel, see… etc. when you reach the objective) I imaginative (create a clear image of what you want to achieve) S simple M measurable A attainable R reasonable T time SELF-HYPNOSIS is a condition of the mind that allows us to control our emotions, behaviour and mental processes. It gives us the ability to focus our attention on what it is that we desire, for example, how to be concentrated, calm… etc. “Purify your thoughts and make your perception of the world clearer” (Givauden) In reality, with hypnosis, you create a conscious SELF-HYPNOSIS externally led. Now we are going to talk about creating the same condition on ourselves. When we speak about SELF-HYPNOSIS, we might as well talk about creative imagination and, until we can access this mental state, it is necessary to be in a deeply relaxed position. This position allows us to be receptive towards spontaneous images which come and go without rule. The more we are relaxed, the more we are open and sensitive to what fantasy is showing us. Autosuggestion is the preferred ground of SELF-HYPNOSIS, as suggestion is the preferred ground of hypnosis. When an image strikes the unconscious, conscious activity tends to cancel it and it is exactly at this moment that fantasy, and the ability to let it affect us, intensifies; thus, attention, judgment and reason cease to be on guard. Therefore, all techniques using suggestion and autosuggestion are based on distracting conscious attention, in both direct and indirect ways, to transmit certain sensations and images of the unconscious. Before we talk about hypnosis, we are going to enter more deeply into the subject of SELF-HYPNOSIS. I would also like to add something else to let you understand what are, in reality, auto-hypnotic and hypnotic techniques, discrediting the idea that they are something unknown or inexplicable (even if there are obviously further things to know about them more I can write in this introduction). WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR BRAIN DURING HYPNOSIS AND SELF-HYPNOSIS? There are many theories on hypnotic phenomenon; the following is a very interesting one: We know that our brain is divided into two parts that are called hemispheres; each one has a particular role to play. The right hemisphere is the creative one, that of imaginative thought where dreams are developed and musical information is found. Think about musicians and painters, they are all people who have a more developed right hemisphere. The left hemisphere is specialized in rational thought, in logic and in language. These two parts of the brain communicate with each other via the corpus callosum, which mediates messages. SELF-HYPNOSIS and hypnosis, do nothing other than allow the right hemisphere to activate itself. We obviously use the left hemisphere more for everyday tasks and this is an obstacle to the activation of the right one, for the former evaluates and examines information that arrives via our senses, meaning images, sounds and sensations. To reach the right hemisphere, we need to distract the left using verbal commands or other techniques until whatever flows from the right hemisphere is not subjected to judgment. In hypnosis induced by others, the left hemisphere is deactivated by the hypnotist through the use of specific techniques. In SELF-HYPNOSIS, we are responsible for this operation. As you would have realized, we remain the protagonists in this experience, whether we are induced or there is auto-inducement. It is here that the importance of visualization arises: Create a clear image of the things that you want and before anything else, instill it with emotions. Just think that inventors are able to see the object they are inventing before they have even put together the parts. “Imagination is more important than knowledge” (Einstein) “The mind is comparable to a butterfly that takes on the colour of the leaf on which it is resting...you become what you envisage”. (Gustave Flaubert) Above all, it is important to learn how to relax and concentrate and not to allow ourselves to be distracted, focusing our attention inside ourselves. At the beginning, this may seem difficult but then you will see unexpected results. You will feel a sensation of order in your mind and the ability to manage your thoughts without them managing you. Your mind will become your kingdom and you will be the king. THINK ABOUT A LAKE: when the surface is calm it’s easy to see the bottom. However, when the lake is choppy with waves you cannot see anything. The same thing happens to the mind: it can only read inside you when it is calm! AN AUTOSUGGESTIVE EXCERCISE AFTER SELF HYPNOSIS HAS BEEN ACTIVATED Relax. Identify something that you would like to obtain, create or achieve; it can be a job, an internal change, improved health or an approved appearance. To start with, choose an objective that is easy to believe in. Create a mental image, think about the present, as if it already exists, in exactly the way you want it.