They are devoted to beauty and passion, birth, sex, intensity, and death. Sometimes they seek out sufferance to better analyze it. They are very analytic and it is difficult for them to feel guilty. Their representation channel is COENEASTHESIS AUTIORY. Key Motivation: DON’T BE SUPERFICIAL; BE DEEP 5. THE INVESTIGATOR They are researchers, collecting information; “They stay in their ivory tower”. Their investment is in knowledge; in fact the motto that best describes them is “take care of the details”. They maintain emotional distance from others, protect their privacy, and do not allow themselves to get involved. They subdivide duties into compartments, being detached from people, feelings and things. Developed type five can cover decisional positions very well and become intellectuals. Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivations: MULTI-KNOWLEDGED; WANT TO KNOW EVERYTHING; KNOWLEDGE IS POWER! 6. THE LOYALIST They want to avoid danger and be influenced, reason on the intentions of others, and are critical from an intellectual point of view. They are timid, indecisive, procrastinator, for to them, thought substitutes action. They are frightened to act because exposing themselves may mean being attacked. They support lost causes and always put themselves in second place. The phobic type six are insecure; they feel persecuted and give in if they feel their backs are against the wall. The contra-phobic feel as if they constantly have their backs against the wall and react to fear with aggression. Developed type six are excellent team players, loyal soldiers and friends. They dedicate themselves to a cause in the same way others do for personal profit. Their representational channel is AUDITORY VISUAL. They have a fear of being cheated by human matters! Key Motivation: skepticism 7. THE ENTHUSIAST They are pleasure seekers, like the eternal child who approaches life in an amateurish way. They tend to go for brief relationships, superficiality, adventure and hedonism. They seldom make an effort; they want to keep all options open. Their main feature is that they are always in a good mood, generally happy and are good company. They start things but do not finish them. Developed type seven are excellent theorists, are very succinct and embody the “renaissance” man. They live very much in the present, in fact, they believe in the motto “carpe diem”. Their representational channel is VISUAL COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivation ACT and LIVE! 8. THE CHALLENGER They believe fundamentally in struggle, therefore, lawyers come under type eight. Their motto is “dominate or be dominated”, being very protective, attacking to defend themselves and their friends. Being combatitive, openly showing anger and strength, they have a great respect for opponents who confront them sincerely. They have contact through sex and direct confrontation. They live excessively: too much of everything, late nights, voice too loud …etc. Developed type eight make excellent heads, for example, politicians. Their representational channel is AUDITORY COENEASTHESIS. Key Motivation REBEL 9. THE PEACEMAKER They tend to sacrifice themselves to keep the peace, their motto is “It’s the taking part that counts not the winning”. They tend towards the anonymous, for they are not exhibitionists. In fact, they prefer anonymous situations. Being obsessively ambiguous, they always consider all points of view and substitute their own needs with those of the others. They tend to poison themselves with food, drink and television. They understand others’ needs before their own, tend to withdraw, are never sure if they want to stay in one place or not, or take part in the group or not. They are always willing, expressing their anger in indirect ways. Developed type nine make excellent advisers, peacekeepers and negotiators. They work well inside an organization. As they don’t want earthly love, they become hyper-spiritual and desire harmony to avoid taking positions. They have a preference for fickle positions. Their representational channel is COENEASTHESIS AUDITORY. Key Motivation: SEEK HARMONY KEY RELATIONS WITH ENNEAGRAM TYPES TYPE 1 (REFORMER) I’m OK if I’m perfect or strive for perfection! You’re OK if you are perfect or strive for perfection! TYPE 2 (HELPER) Let me help. Acknowledge them. TYPE 3 (ACHIEVER) Think positive! I’m OK if I think positive. You’re OK if you think positive. TYPE 4 (INDIVIDUALIST) I’m suffering therefore I exist! I’m OK if I’m suffering emotionally. You’re OK if you are suffering emotionally. TYPE 5 (INVESTIGATOR) I’m OK if I have information. You’re OK if you don’t invade me. TYPE 6 (LOYALIST) Recognize their abilities. Look for their good points. They aren’t bad but attack out of fear. TIPO 7 (ENTHUSIAST) Fill me up!!!!! I want to live positive emotional states! Give me new possibilities. Fear remaining stuck. TYPE 8 (CHALLENGER) Give them a responsibility. TYPE 9 (PEACEMAKER) Let me take part!!!!!!!!!!!!! As well as being able to recognize ourselves in one of the nine different enneagram types, the enneagram can also be used as a communication tool. ENNEAGRAM FOR COMMUNICATING The first thing we should do is OBSERVE our interlocutor in all of his/ her behaviors to be able to identify the enneagram type s/he belongs to. This allows us to understand the reasons behind his/ her behavior and eventual difficulties that we may meet, allowing us to pull out his/ her values. Thus, we can enter into a rapport without risk of doing or saying anything that makes us go on a “collision course”. It is, therefore, evident that the enneagram can be used both on personal and professional levels. ENNEAGRAM: A PROFESSIONAL & PERSONAL TOOL On a personal level it gives us the possibility of extending self-knowledge and favoring the development of a balanced personality. It helps us to communicate better with the people that are important in our lives, in work, in relationships… etc. On a professional level, the enneagram is useful to therapists, consultants and also to those in a business field, like managers, because it completes knowledge, allowing you to understand the people with whom you have a relationship in a quicker and deeper way and to react while keeping in mind what is most important. For example, if you are a business man and you use the enneagram correctly, you can understand more about the abilities of your team members, instilling in them a team spirit which is fundamental to achieve success. In all cases, the enneagram is more than a simple method to understand ourselves and others, it is open to the past and the future at the same time. That is why when we talk about the enneagram we can immediately associate it as a: TOOL FOR UNDERSTANDING SELF; TOOL FOR PREDICTING; TOOL FOR DEVELOPMENT; and TOOL FOR COMMUNICATING. Even if we have divided psychological typology into nine categories, it is important to point out that we have all of them present in us, although we have a preference for certain types, or we use the type that we need at each situation. Psychiatric pathologies are psychological enneagram types taken to the extreme or can be at rest, hence, empty. For example, if a personality is dominated by the compulsions of the type to which it belongs, we refer to “false personality” or “destructive self”. The enneagram is a new answer to the research of understanding ourselves and others, communication, and relationships between human beings. “He that has made a door and a lock has also made a key” (Chabreuil) Hypnosis in NLP is a developed ability to communicate which allows us to establish excellent relations with others, and grow towards autonomy, freedom and the appreciation of life in all of its glory. We can control our brain together with its functioning in its relationship with ourselves and we can make it carry out the instructions we give it. For example, if we speak angrily, the brain selects anger and arranges an adequate state of mind to the thoughts activated. On the other hand, if we express ourselves with enthusiasm, the brain will process this type of response and produces a happy state of mind. “Our brain is a learning machine and we are its programmers!!!!! !” Passing from one state of mind to another is an automatic ability. This is demonstrable when we watch two lovers together: both of them depend on smiles and words of love in order to feel being in hell or heaven. In the mysterious world of emotions, that many of us refuse, escape from or do not understand, there are deep mechanisms by which people lose responsibility for their actions that are automatic, so that they suffer or enjoy the results of their behaviour without realizing, until they get to the point where, if they are suffering, they attach the blame to somebody else according to their own strategies. Hypnosis is, therefore, a natural state that Man finds himself involved with in the act of living; s/he is able to bring it on or induce it in others, or s/he may experience it without knowing that it is called hypnosis. All kinds of efficient communication are hypnosis. It is a road that takes us to our mind, a fast path, sometimes rapid and sometimes steep.