 SUMMARY INTRODUCTION 4 PART ONE: THE MAGIC WORLD OF NEURO-LINGUISTIC PROGRAMMING 5 WHAT EXACTLY IS NLP? 8 WHAT DOES NLP MEAN? 9 nlp & NLp 3 14 PART 2: INSTANT Rapport 15 INSTANT RAPPORT TOOLS: PROXEMIC 18 DIGITAL PROXEMIC 18 PART three: non verbal communication 19 VALUES 22 COMMUNICATION STYLES 23 PART FOUR: REPRESENTATIVE OR SENSORIAL SYSTEMS 24 PART FIVE: PERSON TYPES 27 ENNEAGRAM 28 THE NINE ENNEAGRAM TYPES 29 KEY RELATIONS WITH ENNEAGRAM TYPES 32 ENNEAGRAM FOR COMMUNICATING 33 ENNEAGRAM: A PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL TOOL 33 PART six: hypnosis 35 AUTO-hypnosis 42 WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR BRAIN DURING HYPNOSIS AND AUTO-HYPNOSIS? 45 PART seven: NLp & the various techniques applicable in different AREAS of life 52 ANCHORING 53 METAPHORS 54 TIME LINE 55 PHOBIA TECHNIQUES (cinema technique) 58 OCULAR DESENSITIZATION TECHNIQUE 58 ANXIETY TECHNIQUE 59 SHUFFLING 60 PART eight: R.E.I. 62 reasons for choosing neuro-linguistic programming & OTHER new training methods 63 COMPROMISE ANALYSES, PSYCOSYNTHESIS & NLP 64 PROGRESSIVE CONCEPTS 66 EPISTEMOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS AND THE NEW HYPNO-RAPPORT CONCEPT 66 REMARKS & CONSIDERATIONS 66 CONCLUSIONs 72 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This guide has come to light thanks to the work of some students from the ISI-CNV institute, directed by Dr. Marco Paret. It represents an introduction to the subject matter taught during the “basic practitioner” course. We would like specially thank Erika Galati for her hard work in research and editing and Stefano Sesini for his well-organized and effective ideas. INTRODUCTION Have you ever wanted to get to know yourself better and to understand your potentiality? Do you want to learn how to use communication in an efficient way? Are you interested in creating satisfactory relationships? If your answer is yes to any of the above, then you should know that various techniques exist that can help you on such a journey. Enjoy your Reading! PART ONE: THE MAGIC WORLD OF NEURO-LINGUISTIC PROGRAMMING If you are reading this guide, it means that you can imagine yourself learning more about how to change your life and profession to the better. The aim of this guide is to introduce to you a “know how” that can accompany you forever, providing you with a personal experience that helps strengthening both the body and the mind. Everyone deserves the best; the amazing thing is that we can choose between really living or simply existing, allowing events to control us. The methods presented here have been introduced to help you become the person that you have always wanted to be, to achieve your results and to understand your most inner self. “What I am today is indicative of what I have learnt, not what is my potential”. (Virginia Satir) Have you ever been so sure of yourself that you are happy simply because you feel you own your life and you are the author of the situations of success that you have created around you? This is a state of excellence that you can create yourself, even if you don’t yet know how. What is taught in our school is a method that allows us to discover the structure behind this experience and to be able to recreate it. It is possible to create a type of engineering of emotional states in such a way that the best possible state can be used at any given moment. The aim of NLP and its associated methods is to provide you with the methodology, that puts into effect an astonishing process of growth of the possibilities within you. Thus, you will present yourself in a new, efficient way when faced with daily life situations. You already possess these things. You have to strengthen the courage and will to find trust in your feelings and internal being and learn how to follow them. In such a prospective, to “really” live can be a choice and not a chance. There are a large number of people that let there brain run at breakneck speed, wasting a lot of time experiencing things that they would prefer to avoid. It is important to realize that in this way the brain becomes a “room” so full of constant chattering that solutions have difficulty in entering due to lack of space. It is certainly useful to think about problems in order to solve them, but at the same time, it is also useful to start forming alternative strategies to be able to avoid them recurring. “Difficulties are the fire that shapes our character”. (Anthony Robbins) The above phrase might mean that every time we find ourselves faced with a problem, we can identify the most efficient strategy to confront the situation. What we called “difficulty” before becomes an opportunity to shape and improve ourselves, an invitation to act. How much ownership do we have of our thoughts? Many people are prisoners of their own brain. It’s as if they were chained to the back seat of the bus with someone else at the wheel. But who is this someone else? They are our unconscious reactions and plans. We are the ones who should be driving our “Personal Bus”. If we don’t give some directions, we will face the risk that we will either travel randomly on our own behalf, or other people will find the way to direct it in our place. NLP and the other methods that we present to you are a unique opportunity to learn how to use the brain in a more functional way. Neuro-linguistic programming is nothing more than an educational process, therefore, the other methods can open up the way to contact with that which we realize to be a “natural state”. Another interesting metaphor is the following: Let us imagine now that our brain is a machine that is missing an off switch. If we do not give it something to do, it will continue to churn around and at the end, it gets bored!!!!! How many of you are obsessed with particular thoughts or situations that you would like to resolve? Saying to yourselves, “I would like to be able to push them out of my head”. Think about the extraordinary ability that you have to able to put them there in the first place! Our point of view is that our brains are phenomenal. A brain is capable of doing amazing things and the problem is that it is often not what it cannot learn but the fact that it learns too well and too quickly. For example, the risk of a single traumatic event is conditioning us for years; in other words, a single experience can leave an indelible trace. In reality, nevertheless, you can go further than simply freeing yourself of these automatic conditionings. Thus, our abilities can be taught to move towards a state which brings us satisfaction. OUR NEEDS AND WHERE TO FIND ADEQUATE RESOURCES If we ask various people, we will discover that their different needs are: the need to know themselves better and improve their relationship with themselves, the need to open themselves to others and to be understood, to have personal security, to be positive, to unblock themselves, to have self-confidence, etc… It is important to realize that everything necessary to satisfy these needs to be successful people is INSIDE US! What we are saying here is that NLP 3 and the other methods are opportunities to gain the right methodology to bring everything out. There’s only one person who can decide to start this journey: you. If you reflect on the phrase that “thought is the forefather of action”, you will arrive to the pleasant conclusion which says: “The quality of your life depends exclusively on you!” “Life can be a daring adventure or nothing!!!! !” (Helen Keller) WHAT IS NLP? NLP is the first subject that we will face in this journey through human potentiality. We can start by giving a technical explanation of neuro-linguistic programming. Above all, it is wise to say that NLP originated from the need to organize our thoughts, to discover and improve strategies that we use for work, to understand, to love, and most importantly, to live. If we become aware of our behavioral patterns and our unconscious plans, we will be in the position to modify them as we wish. NLP supplies methods that show you the “how to” of transformation. “The problem isn’t the problem, but the way in which we relate to it!” Talking about NLP is like talking about creativity, learning a new way of facing life in all of its facets, becoming protagonists and creators. The term may give the impression of something cold and technical, however, everything that is behind these 3 simple initials give a significance and body to our existence. This can become one triumph after another of achievements, successes, authentic emotions and above all, it gives us the opportunity to live without the necessity of identifying ourselves with that which is outside of us and to which we don’t belong. What we are proposing is a journey guided by our inner selves, taking effective and maximum advantage of the potential that we possess, living with joy, creativity, experience and knowledge. NLP has been active in Italy since the beginning of the 80s; it has developed models and interventions used in companies, schools, training centers, and is also used by therapists. In the last few years, it has experienced a growth in new models and paradigms, which brings us to the subject of NLP 3, signifying a consistent approach and evolving itself further than its predecessors in the research for new horizons. Our institute is internationally recognized as being among those that facilitate such a venture. What Does NLP Mean? Literally, NLP stands for Neuro-linguistic Programming. By breaking the name up we can individualize 3 main components. Neuro: Our experience is filtered and processed by our central nervous system through the five senses. Linguistic: This is the response to internally received or surfacing stimuli, therefore, starting the verbal and non-verbal relationships with the external. Programming: It means the mental effort that starts within the individual at the moment in which he receives information. It is, therefore, evident that by perceiving the world using the five senses, each person perceives and processes things in a different way. Once all the information is gathered, an internal procedure of mental processing is activated that is composed of mental representations of that which is perceived. These mental representations influence values and convictions which, at the same time, trigger an internal state, structured by emotions, feelings and sensations that form mental programs (metaprograms) or strategies of people still under the form of mental representations. Following this internal effort, each one of us responds to stimuli with his/ her own language which can be of two types: verbal and non-verbal. Non-verbal language which is immediate, unconscious, automatic and symbolic is very important, and it often represents a way of achieving effective and real communications. “The secret to having a successful life is inside of you!” ATTITUDES TO INTEREST US IN NLP When we approach NLP, we need to be pushed by a strong desire to participate in life and a curiosity towards exploring what is new, wishing to challenge ourselves in something unexplored in order to achieve and live our dreams. How many of you have projects that are blocked by fear of failure, thinking of all the difficulties you might meet? This behavior runs the risks of becoming counterproductive.......We are the first difficulty that we need to overcome. You yourself need to focus on the results that you want to achieve and, moreover, dedicate all the energy you can give to your projects. Many people think that NLP is simply a group of techniques; instead, it is the study and modeling of success strategies, animated by the winning positive thought of those that have achieved great goals in all aspects of their life. WE ARE GREATER THAN WHAT WE THINK WE ARE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! An example of this greatness was the American psychiatrist Milton Erickson who, notwithstanding his handicap, managed to develop the small amount of sensibility he had in order to be able to have better contact with others. He became the best communicator of his time even though he had difficulty in speaking. He believed in life and in love, seen by him as a great value. United with passion and positivism, they are the best conditions to learn NPL in the best way possible. Minds that work well are those that produce satisfactory results which are also visible to others!!!! Milton Erickson was a hymn to life! To be able to overcome his difficulties he found himself faced with a challenge, and the result of his challenge was Neuro-linguistic programming. In fact, the first NLP originated from the comprehension. It was carried out by a study group at the Santa Cruz University (California) and its strategies have been used by many successful communicators. The modeling of M. Erikson played a fundamental role in this development. We are the ones who, being born and raised in a culture which considers life a “valley of tears”, think that the moment something good happens, it is down to good luck. A dull life, without emotions or memorable events, is considered normal. Thus, with this widespread conviction, it becomes logical that existence continues in this “dullness”, because the brain is a learning machine and energy follows thought.