Along with hypnosis, the theory and practice of Non-Verbal Communication are probably among the most antique of the subjects discussed in this guide. At the same time, they are among those which modern research has the most information about. The fundamental languages that allow us to relate to others are: 1. VERBAL LANGUAGE made up of words which serve to transmit information. 2. NON-VERBAL LANGUAGE with which we express our internal emotions, using gestures, behavior and silence. Some studies have shown that in an interpersonal communication, the message is only transmitted using 7% of words and 38% from the tone of voice, while 55% is communicated using body language. This differs when using the telephone, in fact in this case, that 38% becomes 100% of the communication. Mirabeau wrote: “Words were given to man to hide his thoughts”. Example: If we ask someone how they are and they reply “fine” followed by a clearing of the throat, it means that they are lying. Body language tells the truth and often betrays what we say with words. It is the natural way of expressing our state of mind and it can bring us into direct contact with our deepest emotions: fear, anxiety and joy, which are directly transmitted by our hands, legs and facial muscles. Our mind can decide whether or not to express verbally these sensations or emotions, but we are aware that it is sometimes better to keep quiet. For example, we can say that we are not annoyed but a small, involuntary gesture by our body can give away what we are saying, though normally, nobody pays attention. There are various ways of classifying different states of mind and, for practical purposes, it is useful to focalize on some in particular in order to understand our communication with another individual, whatever the relationship may be. These are: 1. ATTENTION 2. INTEREST 3. PLEASURE 4. REFLECTIVENESS What are the gestures that accompany each of these states? Pleasure, for example, is perceived by way of specific gestures. Remember that CNV is sensorially demonstrated and it is so inherent in man that it can’t be conditioned in anyway. SOME NON-VERBAL SIGNS The attention that a person shows during listening to someone else is shown by the body posture. For example, leaning the chest forward is a sign of attention. Pleasure is connected to the lips and to the so-called analogical kisses. Biting the lips means: “I would like to but I can’t” The tongue is an indicator of strong pleasure towards the person, the subject being discussed, or the situation. Playing around with a ring, a bracelet,… etc., indicates interest. Running fingers through the hair is connected to the desire to be involved. Interest is connected to olfaction except when you rub under the nostrils with a finger. Attention is connected to the leaning forward of the chest. Reflection is an internal dialogue and it manifests itself by tiny movements of the circular kind, like when you touch your ear. When you touch your chin you are being even more reflective. EMOTIONAL UNBURDENING Emotional unburdening can be highlighted by way of three elements: 1. CRYING OR LAUGHING, which reduces tension. 2. SWALLOWING which is tied to emotional states, a sign of something you like that you cannot have but would like to have. 3. THROAT CLEARING more common among smokers, very useful in therapy. One is able to extrapolate a person’s doubts. (For example: you ask a question to the interlocutor and after they have replied they clear their throat). VALUES Our behavior is tied to our values. Thanks to the observation of their emotional replies, Non-Verbal Communication allows us to see when we are getting close to a person’s most important value. There are specific questions that allow us to identify (the technical term is “elicit”) values. Both in therapy and in disputes, when we want to understand a person in order to have a clearer idea, we need to know what he focuses on, what motivates him, what is in his head at the moment. Questions to ask could be: 1. What do you focus on? 2. What motivates you? 3. What are you mainly doing? 4. Where do you think you will be in the future? (This question is useful in understanding the degree of self-confidence, decisions and attitudes). 5. What is important to you? (A question that allows us to understand a person’s values) 6. What exactly does that mean? COMMUNICATION STYLES The signs just highlighted are then connected to a specific “communication style”. Hand movements can be of great help in this area. While the person is talking or answering our questions, if we are focused and we pay attention to hand gestures, we can understand more. A famous family therapist, Virginia Satir, has identified three types of persons: 1. THE BLAMER: When adopting this style, the person is very active, tends to impose himself/ herself, focalizes on himself/ herself, decisive, determined, and his her hand movements are cutting or finger-pointing. S/he uses imperatives or generalizations. 2. THE COMPUTER: Hand movements are rotatory and reflexive. While speaking, s/he enumerations like: “Given that” and “because”. The reasoning is logical, for s/he wants to achieve something by demonstrating. The focus is on the subject and there is an absence of “me” and “you”. 3. PLACATOR: when adopting this style, the person tries to make himself/ herself nice. Communicating in an emotional way, placating and making himself/ herself compliant, the reasoning is, consequently, emotional. This type of person tends to focus on the other and is more passive than reactive. Hand movements are open or in a triangle position. PART FOUR: REPRESENTATIONAL OR SENSORIAL SYSTEMS From the beginning of time, all traditions have leaned towards the belief that perception of reality is a product of the senses. In recent times, NLP and other methods have thrown new light on what this really means. We do not directly perceive reality: we see (and feel, … etc) what our minds perceive of reality. What we distinguish as reality, we translate into internal representations that have an influence on our behavior and, therefore, condition it. Behavior strategies are created on the basis of the information we receive from our surroundings through our sensory channels. A subjective behavior model is the “world map that isn’t the world”. Representational systems are the sensorial formalities through which individual experience is given meaning. Information is collected through all sensorial channels, but is elaborated through a few favored ones following a given strategy. Every human being depicts the world, favoring at all times one of three channels (visual; auditory; coenaesthesis) from which s/he derives his/ her representational system from primary reality. The other two intervene to a lesser degree; in fact, they are defined as secondary representational systems. For example, one person may pay more attention to appearance rather than consistency, another to sound, … etc It can be useful to understand and tune into others’ strategies to create a better rapport. VISUAL (V) are recognized by their straight posture, the positioning of their eyes, mainly upwards or forwards, their deep breathing, acute voice, short phrases and less literal sentences; they also tend to give a lot of importance to esthetic appearance. AUDITORY (A) move their eyes from side to side during a conversation. Their breathing is more thoracic, they learn by listening and, with respect to the visual, have better reflective ability. Their voices are melodic and they narrate for a longer time. One of the phrases they use is, “It sounds good”. COENAESTHESIS (K) breath abdominally, love physical contact and everything that has to do with touch, taste and smell. They have slow gestures, less consideration towards the external appearance of things compared to the subject matter, and memorize by practice. Their voice is deep and they often do not speak much. They focus on the other! FURTHER INFORMATION ON REPRESENTATIONAL TYPES According to the representational channel, the used content also differs: THINGS & PLACES normally indicate a visual preference and language is descriptive. INFORMATION indicates an auditory preference, in other words, things that can be told. ACTIVITY & PEOPLE indicate a coeneasthesis preference (for example: while skiing I felt a feeling of well-being). RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN COMMUNICATION STYLES AND SENSORIAL CHANNELS In another chapter we will analyze different communication styles. A correlation between communication styles and sensorial systems was ascertained. In particular: THE BLAMER IS VISUAL; THE COMPUTER IS AUDITORY; and THE PLACATOR IS COENEATHESIS. We can therefore reaffirm the concept that if we want to establish a rapport, we need to understand our interlocutor’s strategy and use it ourselves. However, apart from this, it is important not to leave out any channel.