We obviously use the left hemisphere more for everyday tasks and this is an obstacle to the activation of the right one, for the former evaluates and examines information that arrives via our senses, meaning images, sounds and sensations. To reach the right hemisphere, we need to distract the left using verbal commands or other techniques until whatever flows from the right hemisphere is not subjected to judgment. In hypnosis induced by others, the left hemisphere is deactivated by the hypnotist through the use of specific techniques. In SELF-HYPNOSIS, we are responsible for this operation. As you would have realized, we remain the protagonists in this experience, whether we are induced or there is auto-inducement. It is here that the importance of visualization arises: Create a clear image of the things that you want and before anything else, instill it with emotions. Just think that inventors are able to see the object they are inventing before they have even put together the parts. “Imagination is more important than knowledge” (Einstein) “The mind is comparable to a butterfly that takes on the colour of the leaf on which it is resting...you become what you envisage”. (Gustave Flaubert) Above all, it is important to learn how to relax and concentrate and not to allow ourselves to be distracted, focusing our attention inside ourselves. At the beginning, this may seem difficult but then you will see unexpected results. You will feel a sensation of order in your mind and the ability to manage your thoughts without them managing you. Your mind will become your kingdom and you will be the king. THINK ABOUT A LAKE: when the surface is calm it’s easy to see the bottom. However, when the lake is choppy with waves you cannot see anything. The same thing happens to the mind: it can only read inside you when it is calm! AN AUTOSUGGESTIVE EXCERCISE AFTER SELF HYPNOSIS HAS BEEN ACTIVATED Relax. Identify something that you would like to obtain, create or achieve; it can be a job, an internal change, improved health or an approved appearance. To start with, choose an objective that is easy to believe in. Create a mental image, think about the present, as if it already exists, in exactly the way you want it. Place yourself in the exact situation which you desire. Enrich your mental image with specific emotions, making it as real as possible. Give positive energy to the objective; make positive assertions to yourself, saying that your objective exists. This is useful in that to affirm something means to halt any doubts or mistrusts you may have. Create inside yourself the feeling that what you want is real and can be achieved just by wanting it. A desire or a situation to be achieved can come back to you even during different times of the day; this means that the condition becomes part of your life. “Fantasy is your power”. RULES FOR COMMUNICATING WITH YOUR UNCONSCIOUS MIND You should keep in mind that you are communicating with your unconscious mind, therefore, it is necessary to respect the rules, until our mind listens and understands what we want. USE THE PRESENT When you think about the result, think of it as already accomplished. The unconscious mind is an existential mind and works in the “moment”, for the future does not exist for it. BE POSITIVE Eliminate all negative words, for to transmit negation of something within communication means to transmit badly. For your subconscious “no” and “not” are neutral words. Normally, we are used to talking about what we want, eliminating without realising the reinforcement of the problem. Say where you want to go and not where you want to leave. BE SIMPLE Choose a specific area where you can put the improvement into effect. BE DETAILED Analyse your objective and structure your suggestion in such a way as to include every detail of your new behaviour in a positive plan. For example, if you are scared to speak in public, the suggestion would be, “I like speaking to people”. BE SIMPLE Speak to your subconscious as if it were a child; avoid “literary expressions”. Simple words have more impact. USE EMOTIONAL WORDS You need to ascertain that, at the moment of speaking, your assertions are generating sensations. The subconscious is your emotional mind. CONCENTRATE ON ACTION Your suggestions need to describe your actions, not your abilities. BE PRECISE Say exactly what it is that you want. If the result is measurable, for example your weight, be precise. BE REALISTIC Avoid suggesting perfection. PERSONALISE Suggestions are structured to change yourself and your actions, not others. “It is possible to change, just decide what type of person you want to be”. (Skipp Ross) Self-hypnosis is therefore an ideal technique both for creating new behaviours, altering others, managing problems like anxiety, tension and stress, or freeing yourself from bad habits. INDIAN SELF HYPNOSIS A characteristic of Indian self-hypnosis is that it gives a lot of importance to visualisation and projection. Indian self-hypnosis model Visualisation of the desired scene. Bring the scene towards the heart and load it with emotions. Bring the scene towards the belly button, the centre of your being. Start breathing, 6 3 6, until you feel like energy itself. Visualise a light at the root of your nose under closed eyelids. Send light to the scene. Take a deep breath, sending the scene outside and feeling that it is becoming real. Say, “thank you”. Breathing 6 3 6 The time for each breath that you need to take is 6 units, the time to hold your breath is 3 units and the time to breathe out is 6 units. All this is just a little hint of what is the magical world of hypnosis and self- hypnosis, a magic that we can bring into our life and make it our magic reality!!!! “The spirit is life the mind is what builds it reality is the result!” (Edgar Cayce) THE CONNECTION BETWEEN AUTOGENOUS TRAINING AND SELF HYPNOSIS Both of the above mentioned techniques favor the creation of a condition of a psychophysical well-being. With the term autogenous training, J.H. Schults defined a method of self-extension that allowed the altering of mental and somatic situations. Training means the gradual learning of a series of passive, mental concentration exercises. Autogenous means something that is generated by the self and it is this characteristic that differentiates this method from those of hypnotic and self-hypnotic techniques, for in these methods mental and somatic modifications are actively induced. It is a scientific method of autosuggestion, a type of Western yoga that produces a general feeling of relaxation that helps to re-charge and restore body and mind. It has the scope of achieving a hypnotic state, therefore, under this aspect it can be seen as a self- hypnosis method. “Autogenous training is the art of self discovery”. THE APPLICATION OF AUTOGENOUS TRAINING As a simple, deep relaxation exercise, In psychotherapy, In sports, and In study. Often, we hear phrases like, “With all this stress and anxiety for the things I’ve got to finish, I’ll get an ulcer!” We try to resolve our problems but are swamped by them. The answer distances itself and we remain trapped in a situation of malaise, and then we somatically try to face them. Dumping our tensions on the somatic tract and, over time, one of our organs can lead us to the point of becoming ill (target organ). An accumulation of particularly stressful events, and above all, the inability of the individual to manage the resulting emotions in an adequate way, can make the individual more susceptible to illness. As NLP also confirms, it is not the events in themselves that bring on psychosomatic illness or anxiety, but the way in which we live them and react to them. Before going ahead with the various techniques, it is advisable to highlight the importance of the psychophysical condition at our disposal and in this sense, relaxation techniques offer a great contribution. We also need to have trust the power of our minds and the fact that, as happens when using NLP techniques, it can be “reprogrammed”, substituting negative learning with positive, in such as way that the experience gained is prolonged in the future. Thoughts need to be used to feed us and not to block us anymore. The key to obtaining the results we want consists of placing of ourselves in a positive state of mind, with the awareness that we can govern our life. Moreover, when training, like in NLP, you use the dynamic and creative power of mental images to help with your self-discovery and to aid your desired changes in virtue of impulse which tends to translate the images into actions. During a visualisation, as well as with the visual images, you should also take into account other types of perception (auditory, tactile, kinaesthetic etc.) NLP goes further than autogenous training but with an extra gear! It goes deeper, restructuring our way of perceiving reality, substituting negative learning with positive learning. You, moreover, do not need to exercise yourself like you do in autogenous training. PART SEVEN: NLP and the Various Techniques Applicable to Various Aspects of Life In this chapter, we will put together some useful techniques and concepts for the following areas: Therapeutic Personal development Business The ideas highlighted here can only be a brief outline of a few applications. We ask that you get fully acquainted with the material to be able to use those applications thoroughly. ANCHORING How many times has listening to a particular tune brought back memories of an important or painful time in your life, making you re-live the same feelings? When an image or sound is tied to our mind, as an emotional state or a behavioural reaction, an anchorage has occurred. Anchors can be naturally or intentionally cast: the NLP technique can voluntarily provoke a connection of this type for therapeutic reasons. For example, in an examination setting, where a young person tends towards anxiety, a sensation of self-control and calmness can be anchored, to which they can access in their time of need by way of its attachment to a part of the body (the arm for example). Generally speaking, therapeutic anchors are of kinaesthetic type, in other words, tactile. In fact, it is much easier for a person to touch a part of the body than see an image or hear a sound. Subsequently, the operator can evoke in the subject a specific state of mind and, at the same time, make him associate it with a stimulus. EXERCISE Think about a negative emotion that you want to free yourself from and anchor by pressing your knee. Now, what is it that you would have needed at that moment? Anchor negatively by pressing the other knee. Then employ the two anchors at the same time (anchor failure). METAPHORS A metaphor is a story or tale that makes changes in those who listen. In NLP, metaphors are used as efficient therapeutic instruments for their extraordinarily ability to guide the listener through the use of mental processes that manage a change in the way reality is perceived. A typical example is that of the child who asks his parents to tell him a fairytale, because while he listens, he uses his fantasy to live the life of the characters, facing their difficulties and consequently finds in himself the resources to face eventual personal fears. Milton Erickson illustrated many therapeutic metaphors in his book My Voice Will Accompany You that were able to provoke such changes in the readers whom they left surprised. The objective of the metaphor consists in changing the way in which we face our problems...... IT ISN’T THE KEY, BUT IT’S A WAY TO TURN THE KEY!!!! SOME EXAMPLES OF SIMPLE METAPHORS The garden of life “Imagine that you are in a garden, the garden of your life; there are some dead leaves dotted around the ground, all your worries are written on them; start to collect them, now burn them and scatter the ashes!” The lake “Imagine that you are at the bottom of a lake, the lake is your imagination; put every thought that you create in your head in a bubble and let it float to the top”.