In such a prospective, to “really” live can be a choice and not a chance. There are a large number of people that let there brain run at breakneck speed, wasting a lot of time experiencing things that they would prefer to avoid. It is important to realize that in this way the brain becomes a “room” so full of constant chattering that solutions have difficulty in entering due to lack of space. It is certainly useful to think about problems in order to solve them, but at the same time, it is also useful to start forming alternative strategies to be able to avoid them recurring. “Difficulties are the fire that shapes our character”. (Anthony Robbins) The above phrase might mean that every time we find ourselves faced with a problem, we can identify the most efficient strategy to confront the situation. What we called “difficulty” before becomes an opportunity to shape and improve ourselves, an invitation to act. How much ownership do we have of our thoughts? Many people are prisoners of their own brain. It’s as if they were chained to the back seat of the bus with someone else at the wheel. But who is this someone else? They are our unconscious reactions and plans. We are the ones who should be driving our “Personal Bus”. If we don’t give some directions, we will face the risk that we will either travel randomly on our own behalf, or other people will find the way to direct it in our place. NLP and the other methods that we present to you are a unique opportunity to learn how to use the brain in a more functional way. Neuro-linguistic programming is nothing more than an educational process, therefore, the other methods can open up the way to contact with that which we realize to be a “natural state”. Another interesting metaphor is the following: Let us imagine now that our brain is a machine that is missing an off switch. If we do not give it something to do, it will continue to churn around and at the end, it gets bored!!!!! How many of you are obsessed with particular thoughts or situations that you would like to resolve? Saying to yourselves, “I would like to be able to push them out of my head”. Think about the extraordinary ability that you have to able to put them there in the first place! Our point of view is that our brains are phenomenal. A brain is capable of doing amazing things and the problem is that it is often not what it cannot learn but the fact that it learns too well and too quickly. For example, the risk of a single traumatic event is conditioning us for years; in other words, a single experience can leave an indelible trace. In reality, nevertheless, you can go further than simply freeing yourself of these automatic conditionings. Thus, our abilities can be taught to move towards a state which brings us satisfaction. OUR NEEDS AND WHERE TO FIND ADEQUATE RESOURCES If we ask various people, we will discover that their different needs are: the need to know themselves better and improve their relationship with themselves, the need to open themselves to others and to be understood, to have personal security, to be positive, to unblock themselves, to have self-confidence, etc… It is important to realize that everything necessary to satisfy these needs to be successful people is INSIDE US! What we are saying here is that NLP 3 and the other methods are opportunities to gain the right methodology to bring everything out. There’s only one person who can decide to start this journey: you. If you reflect on the phrase that “thought is the forefather of action”, you will arrive to the pleasant conclusion which says: “The quality of your life depends exclusively on you!” “Life can be a daring adventure or nothing!!!! !” (Helen Keller) WHAT IS NLP? NLP is the first subject that we will face in this journey through human potentiality. We can start by giving a technical explanation of neuro-linguistic programming. Above all, it is wise to say that NLP originated from the need to organize our thoughts, to discover and improve strategies that we use for work, to understand, to love, and most importantly, to live. If we become aware of our behavioral patterns and our unconscious plans, we will be in the position to modify them as we wish. NLP supplies methods that show you the “how to” of transformation. “The problem isn’t the problem, but the way in which we relate to it!” Talking about NLP is like talking about creativity, learning a new way of facing life in all of its facets, becoming protagonists and creators. The term may give the impression of something cold and technical, however, everything that is behind these 3 simple initials give a significance and body to our existence. This can become one triumph after another of achievements, successes, authentic emotions and above all, it gives us the opportunity to live without the necessity of identifying ourselves with that which is outside of us and to which we don’t belong. What we are proposing is a journey guided by our inner selves, taking effective and maximum advantage of the potential that we possess, living with joy, creativity, experience and knowledge. NLP has been active in Italy since the beginning of the 80s; it has developed models and interventions used in companies, schools, training centers, and is also used by therapists. In the last few years, it has experienced a growth in new models and paradigms, which brings us to the subject of NLP 3, signifying a consistent approach and evolving itself further than its predecessors in the research for new horizons. Our institute is internationally recognized as being among those that facilitate such a venture. What Does NLP Mean? Literally, NLP stands for Neuro-linguistic Programming. By breaking the name up we can individualize 3 main components. Neuro: Our experience is filtered and processed by our central nervous system through the five senses. Linguistic: This is the response to internally received or surfacing stimuli, therefore, starting the verbal and non-verbal relationships with the external. Programming: It means the mental effort that starts within the individual at the moment in which he receives information. It is, therefore, evident that by perceiving the world using the five senses, each person perceives and processes things in a different way. Once all the information is gathered, an internal procedure of mental processing is activated that is composed of mental representations of that which is perceived. These mental representations influence values and convictions which, at the same time, trigger an internal state, structured by emotions, feelings and sensations that form mental programs (metaprograms) or strategies of people still under the form of mental representations. Following this internal effort, each one of us responds to stimuli with his/ her own language which can be of two types: verbal and non-verbal. Non-verbal language which is immediate, unconscious, automatic and symbolic is very important, and it often represents a way of achieving effective and real communications. “The secret to having a successful life is inside of you!” ATTITUDES TO INTEREST US IN NLP When we approach NLP, we need to be pushed by a strong desire to participate in life and a curiosity towards exploring what is new, wishing to challenge ourselves in something unexplored in order to achieve and live our dreams. How many of you have projects that are blocked by fear of failure, thinking of all the difficulties you might meet? This behavior runs the risks of becoming counterproductive.......We are the first difficulty that we need to overcome. You yourself need to focus on the results that you want to achieve and, moreover, dedicate all the energy you can give to your projects. Many people think that NLP is simply a group of techniques; instead, it is the study and modeling of success strategies, animated by the winning positive thought of those that have achieved great goals in all aspects of their life. WE ARE GREATER THAN WHAT WE THINK WE ARE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! An example of this greatness was the American psychiatrist Milton Erickson who, notwithstanding his handicap, managed to develop the small amount of sensibility he had in order to be able to have better contact with others. He became the best communicator of his time even though he had difficulty in speaking. He believed in life and in love, seen by him as a great value. United with passion and positivism, they are the best conditions to learn NPL in the best way possible. Minds that work well are those that produce satisfactory results which are also visible to others!!!! Milton Erickson was a hymn to life! To be able to overcome his difficulties he found himself faced with a challenge, and the result of his challenge was Neuro-linguistic programming. In fact, the first NLP originated from the comprehension. It was carried out by a study group at the Santa Cruz University (California) and its strategies have been used by many successful communicators. The modeling of M. Erikson played a fundamental role in this development. We are the ones who, being born and raised in a culture which considers life a “valley of tears”, think that the moment something good happens, it is down to good luck. A dull life, without emotions or memorable events, is considered normal. Thus, with this widespread conviction, it becomes logical that existence continues in this “dullness”, because the brain is a learning machine and energy follows thought. In other words, we allow ourselves to be driven between euphoria and sadness when in reality we are the owners of the way we think. Think positive and exciting thoughts if you want to have a happy and stimulating life! Think negative thoughts and you will have a life full of troubles and regrets. NLP is also an attitude, a means to positive living, optimistic, winning… etc. It teaches us how to change that which prevents us from advancing, transforming difficulties into opportunities of progression. It helps us to concentrate on objectives and to find the right way to achieve them. It increases our self-confidence, turning internal images and sensations into something positive. It unfurls with all its strength the potential that is in all of us but which we often ignore. It helps to improve our relationships with others because it puts us in a condition to better observe and fully understand the person with which we are speaking. Originated in America during the 70s, it provides us with a series of successful methods, enabling us to achieve our objectives in all those areas in which communication is fundamental: sentimental, professional, sales, family harmony, etc. In the following years, other models were created that leaned towards the new direction of NLP 3. PRODUCTIVE BELIEF At a higher level of understanding of this subject, everyone can learn to give the right importance to their beliefs, however on this journey it is important to begin with the productive belief. There are beliefs, which I want to bring to your attention: THE MAIN PURPOSE IN LIFE IS NOT THE KNOWLEDGE OF ONESELF BUT ACTION!!!!!!! MAN DOES NOT EQUAL WHAT S/HE HAS BUT EVERYTHING THAT S/HE DOES NOT YET HAVE BUT COULD HAVE!!!!!!! THERE ARE NO FAILURES, ONLY RESULTS!!!!!!! MAN IS AN ANTENNA THAT CAPTURES AND TRANSMITS; IT CAPTURES WHAT S/HE WANTS AND TRANSMITS WHO S/HE IS!!!!!!!! MAN IS NOT A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCE, CIRCUMSTANCE IS A CREATURE OF MAN!!!!!! THE ESSENCE OF MAN IS IN WHAT HE THINKS!!!!!!! THE PILLARS OF SUCCESS ARE: MOTIVATION AND POSITIVE THOUGHT!!!!!! ENTHUSIASM IS FUNDAMENTAL!!!!!!!!! These beliefs can be useful in the beginning to model your development. If you want to really achieve an aim, you will need, above all, to be sure that your motivation is strong enough to get you the wanted results. “A strong enough reason will give you the necessary know how!!!!! !” The basis of any success is strong motivation, without this push nothing will happen. Therefore, if you want to achieve your aim, you need to continually keep the fire of enthusiasm inside of you alive. Visualize yourself at the end of your goal!!!!!! NLP does not teach anything, it enters into our emotional turmoil, into our sophisticated learning processes, in what we do to construct, destroy and transform. It is unleashed and free from conditioning.