Now I’ll count from 3 to 1 and when you awake you will feel relaxed and well. 3 you feel well 2 you have a feeling of happiness. 1 Open your eyes and smile! While carrying out a hypnotic induction, there are some indicators that allow us to understand if the subject is in a “trance-like” state: Decrease in muscle tone; Deeper breathing; Involuntary movement of the pupils; Increase in hand sweating; and Altering of facial symmetry. Obviously, it should be said that this type of induction is used to deeply relax the subject and to make him/ her enter into a state of peace and well-being before starting with other hypnotic techniques, used for example to: Create a new behavioural model; Alter confirmed habits; Develop energy; …etc. Hypnotic techniques are an amplification of our desires! AUTO HYPNOSIS SELF-HYPNOSIS is a very efficient technique; it can be applied to resolve disturbances that are part of everyday life such as: anxiety, tension, stress, bad habits… etc. As well as resolving problems, it is useful for increasing our ability and it can help us to follow particular objectives. For example, to understand how efficient SELF-HYPNOSIS can be, just think that it has been established that the most famous geniuses in history, like Einstein, Edison… etc, owe their discoveries to their ability to put themselves, unknowingly, in a state of SELF-HYPNOSIS, using the inexhaustible possibilities of the subconscious, considered the stem of discovery, invention and success. SELF-HYPNOSIS allows you to focus your attention on what you desire, for example to be calm, serene, concentrated, and attent, with the mind empty or totally occupied in an activity chosen by us. All this happens in a condition of absolute freedom from external influences and insignificant thoughts. With this method, we can face exams with security, develop or abandon certain habits… etc. “The only thing that imprisons you is your mind; the only thing that can free you is your mind!” (Sai Baba) There are two types of SELF-HYPNOSIS: western and eastern. The basic problem with SELF-HYPNOSIS is learning it correctly. Our school has created an educational technique that allows us to learn SELF-HYPNOSIS, in its two forms, in a very short time. WESTERN SELF-HYPNOSIS WESTERN SELF-HYPNOSIS MAINLY USES THE POWER OF SPEECH, AND NORMALLY DEMANDS THE USE OF THE CLASSIC HYPNOTIC TRANCE. It is important to have a well-formed objective. To be able to achieve it, you need to divide it into pieces, sensitizing it and focusing bit by bit. The objective needs to be: P positive E emotional, i.e. find motivational pleasure P present (only speak in the present, never in the past) S sensory (what you feel, see… etc. when you reach the objective) I imaginative (create a clear image of what you want to achieve) S simple M measurable A attainable R reasonable T time SELF-HYPNOSIS is a condition of the mind that allows us to control our emotions, behaviour and mental processes. It gives us the ability to focus our attention on what it is that we desire, for example, how to be concentrated, calm… etc. “Purify your thoughts and make your perception of the world clearer” (Givauden) In reality, with hypnosis, you create a conscious SELF-HYPNOSIS externally led. Now we are going to talk about creating the same condition on ourselves. When we speak about SELF-HYPNOSIS, we might as well talk about creative imagination and, until we can access this mental state, it is necessary to be in a deeply relaxed position. This position allows us to be receptive towards spontaneous images which come and go without rule. The more we are relaxed, the more we are open and sensitive to what fantasy is showing us. Autosuggestion is the preferred ground of SELF-HYPNOSIS, as suggestion is the preferred ground of hypnosis. When an image strikes the unconscious, conscious activity tends to cancel it and it is exactly at this moment that fantasy, and the ability to let it affect us, intensifies; thus, attention, judgment and reason cease to be on guard. Therefore, all techniques using suggestion and autosuggestion are based on distracting conscious attention, in both direct and indirect ways, to transmit certain sensations and images of the unconscious. Before we talk about hypnosis, we are going to enter more deeply into the subject of SELF-HYPNOSIS. I would also like to add something else to let you understand what are, in reality, auto-hypnotic and hypnotic techniques, discrediting the idea that they are something unknown or inexplicable (even if there are obviously further things to know about them more I can write in this introduction). WHAT HAPPENS IN OUR BRAIN DURING HYPNOSIS AND SELF-HYPNOSIS? There are many theories on hypnotic phenomenon; the following is a very interesting one: We know that our brain is divided into two parts that are called hemispheres; each one has a particular role to play. The right hemisphere is the creative one, that of imaginative thought where dreams are developed and musical information is found. Think about musicians and painters, they are all people who have a more developed right hemisphere. The left hemisphere is specialized in rational thought, in logic and in language. These two parts of the brain communicate with each other via the corpus callosum, which mediates messages. SELF-HYPNOSIS and hypnosis, do nothing other than allow the right hemisphere to activate itself. We obviously use the left hemisphere more for everyday tasks and this is an obstacle to the activation of the right one, for the former evaluates and examines information that arrives via our senses, meaning images, sounds and sensations. To reach the right hemisphere, we need to distract the left using verbal commands or other techniques until whatever flows from the right hemisphere is not subjected to judgment. In hypnosis induced by others, the left hemisphere is deactivated by the hypnotist through the use of specific techniques. In SELF-HYPNOSIS, we are responsible for this operation. As you would have realized, we remain the protagonists in this experience, whether we are induced or there is auto-inducement. It is here that the importance of visualization arises: Create a clear image of the things that you want and before anything else, instill it with emotions. Just think that inventors are able to see the object they are inventing before they have even put together the parts. “Imagination is more important than knowledge” (Einstein) “The mind is comparable to a butterfly that takes on the colour of the leaf on which it is resting...you become what you envisage”. (Gustave Flaubert) Above all, it is important to learn how to relax and concentrate and not to allow ourselves to be distracted, focusing our attention inside ourselves. At the beginning, this may seem difficult but then you will see unexpected results. You will feel a sensation of order in your mind and the ability to manage your thoughts without them managing you. Your mind will become your kingdom and you will be the king. THINK ABOUT A LAKE: when the surface is calm it’s easy to see the bottom. However, when the lake is choppy with waves you cannot see anything. The same thing happens to the mind: it can only read inside you when it is calm! AN AUTOSUGGESTIVE EXCERCISE AFTER SELF HYPNOSIS HAS BEEN ACTIVATED Relax. Identify something that you would like to obtain, create or achieve; it can be a job, an internal change, improved health or an approved appearance. To start with, choose an objective that is easy to believe in. Create a mental image, think about the present, as if it already exists, in exactly the way you want it. Place yourself in the exact situation which you desire. Enrich your mental image with specific emotions, making it as real as possible. Give positive energy to the objective; make positive assertions to yourself, saying that your objective exists. This is useful in that to affirm something means to halt any doubts or mistrusts you may have. Create inside yourself the feeling that what you want is real and can be achieved just by wanting it. A desire or a situation to be achieved can come back to you even during different times of the day; this means that the condition becomes part of your life. “Fantasy is your power”. RULES FOR COMMUNICATING WITH YOUR UNCONSCIOUS MIND You should keep in mind that you are communicating with your unconscious mind, therefore, it is necessary to respect the rules, until our mind listens and understands what we want. USE THE PRESENT When you think about the result, think of it as already accomplished. The unconscious mind is an existential mind and works in the “moment”, for the future does not exist for it. BE POSITIVE Eliminate all negative words, for to transmit negation of something within communication means to transmit badly. For your subconscious “no” and “not” are neutral words. Normally, we are used to talking about what we want, eliminating without realising the reinforcement of the problem. Say where you want to go and not where you want to leave. BE SIMPLE Choose a specific area where you can put the improvement into effect. BE DETAILED Analyse your objective and structure your suggestion in such a way as to include every detail of your new behaviour in a positive plan. For example, if you are scared to speak in public, the suggestion would be, “I like speaking to people”. BE SIMPLE Speak to your subconscious as if it were a child; avoid “literary expressions”. Simple words have more impact. USE EMOTIONAL WORDS You need to ascertain that, at the moment of speaking, your assertions are generating sensations. The subconscious is your emotional mind. CONCENTRATE ON ACTION Your suggestions need to describe your actions, not your abilities. BE PRECISE Say exactly what it is that you want. If the result is measurable, for example your weight, be precise. BE REALISTIC Avoid suggesting perfection. PERSONALISE Suggestions are structured to change yourself and your actions, not others. “It is possible to change, just decide what type of person you want to be”. (Skipp Ross) Self-hypnosis is therefore an ideal technique both for creating new behaviours, altering others, managing problems like anxiety, tension and stress, or freeing yourself from bad habits. INDIAN SELF HYPNOSIS A characteristic of Indian self-hypnosis is that it gives a lot of importance to visualisation and projection. Indian self-hypnosis model Visualisation of the desired scene. Bring the scene towards the heart and load it with emotions. Bring the scene towards the belly button, the centre of your being. Start breathing, 6 3 6, until you feel like energy itself. Visualise a light at the root of your nose under closed eyelids. Send light to the scene. Take a deep breath, sending the scene outside and feeling that it is becoming real. Say, “thank you”. Breathing 6 3 6 The time for each breath that you need to take is 6 units, the time to hold your breath is 3 units and the time to breathe out is 6 units. All this is just a little hint of what is the magical world of hypnosis and self- hypnosis, a magic that we can bring into our life and make it our magic reality!!!! “The spirit is life the mind is what builds it reality is the result!” (Edgar Cayce) THE CONNECTION BETWEEN AUTOGENOUS TRAINING AND SELF HYPNOSIS Both of the above mentioned techniques favor the creation of a condition of a psychophysical well-being. With the term autogenous training, J.H. Schults defined a method of self-extension that allowed the altering of mental and somatic situations. Training means the gradual learning of a series of passive, mental concentration exercises.