Meditation nr. 3 - winning the trial of Fire Do our passions master us or are we masters of our passions? Can we win the lion of the heart? An initiated chevalier has COURAGE. And this courage comes from the Heart. Cor (heart in latin) and Courage are related. He is master of himself, of his emotions, and in touch with his essence. Opening the heart and winning our emotions How can we recognize a fierce Chevalier? He stays straight How can he be vertical and straight in every situation? The secret is in his concentrating on the central point This is the key to staying vertical. He stays on his horse between sky and earth and opening the heart Sacred Meditation of the I A O This meditation will be on three sounds The first one will be the sound OOOH. A deep profound sound you will do at the basis of your spine EEEH is the second sound. It will be at your head And finally, but only to close, AAH. At the height of the hearth This meditation will activate progressively your spine bringing you to the center. For the moment, work on it. This meditation will open up your inner force This inner force is like an energy going through your spine. * The Kundalini in the indian writings * The central pillar the hebrew cabala tradition * The central line of the cross of the caduceus Many say the ancient templars knew this secret Neurophysiology of the vertical The verticality is an archetypal tendency. Once born a child want to be vertical, to stay between sky and earth Spiritual Chivalry of the Graal Perceval - Celtic Mystery Initiation The episode of Perceval below means you must win your passions. Magical Guided Imagination You are Perceval And now, in the fourth castle a lion will be won. You enter. All the windows and doors of this castle are open. And you, Perceval now you meet a lion that want to attack you You kill it It arrives the owner of the lion that also want to fight with you You stay stable. He will be won also The lion are the emotions, that command us But the proprietary of the lion, won, will accept you, Perceval He will make friendship with him And you, Perceval you make friendship with the owner of the castle The lion is the symbol of our many emotions, and also the expression of our emotional I. We must win it Once our emotions will be won, we can make friendship with the proprietary of the lion, that is again our self Neurophysiology of the Heart This part of the Perceval is linked to the meaning of the heart Traditionally, the study of communication pathways between the head and heart has been approached from a rather one-sided perspective, with scientists focusing primarily on the heart’s responses to the brain’s commands. We have learned, however, that communication between the heart and brain actually is a dynamic, ongoing, two-way dialogue, with each organ continuously influencing the other’s function. Research has shown that the heart communicates to the brain in four major ways: neurologically (through the transmission of nerve impulses), biochemically (via hormones and neurotransmitters), biophysically (through pressure waves) and energetically (through electromagnetic field interactions). Communication along all these conduits significantly affects the brain’s activity. Moreover, research shows that messages the heart sends to the brain also can affect performance. SHIELD With the trial of fire you have now won the third shield. In it the lion, the sword, the castle gu a chevron or 1 chevronel gu in first quarter a chess castle argent smaller smaller smaller higher in second quarter a claymore arg bendwise left a lion rampant in nombril arg larger slightly higher, Mantling of sable and gules, n knight helmet sable slightly higher, torse sable and gules,