Meditation nr. 9 - Axis Mundi An initiated chevalier is CENTERED, at the center, in contact with the central axis The central axis has also the meaning of RECTITUDE. Try in your life to be always far and correct with everybody. ________________ Chivalry of the Graal Perceval Celtic Mystery Initiation If you are here, you have gone through the passages that make you capable to go on the last step. Nothing is more important than to arrive to the ultimate state of supraconscience of awakening. But for getting there we must be a knight without fear and without doubt in the soul. Aan you must overcome any fear. Perceval goes up on the mount of the dolour This is the last passage Questions and Answers What time is it? It is noon. The Sun is vertical Who is coming? A woman, telling us not to do the last trial. She is the symbol of the fears and of the desire of the world What will we do? We will nevertheless proceed on the mountain What is on the top of the mountain? A column. It means we are at the center of the world And around? 3 times 5 crosses. 5 red, because we dominate action, 5 white, because we are in contact with the spiritual dimension, 5 blue, because we dominate the reality What is on the column? A ring What will we do now? We will put our horse there. Because we will put us at the center And suddenly a woman, a Fylgja, appears. And we will acceed to the magic pavillion where she will give him the magic mantle At the end Perceval is able to get back to the castle of the Roy Pecheur (chapter XIII) A woman tell Perceval there is risk but Perceval go the same on what is called the mount of pain. And in reality is free You too in your life you must want to be free. Awakening our real you and be free is the goal of the real chivalric initiation May these Meditation be useful to you We have kept them very simple, but there is a millenary tradition behind them You can repeat these lessons Now you can take contact with a real structure in order to further develop this path Visit www.Ivanhoemanor.com and write us to proceed further The Miracle is in your hands!