Meditation nr. 8 - RED and BLOOD - The Tournament - “Contemplative Action” DETACHMENT A real chevalier wins on Pride. Red is the colour of BLOOD. A real chevalier is aware of himself, detached, and has won one of the worst enemy of the heart: pride. Red means a superior state of being within yourselves. In your flesh. The power of now will guide you to be contemplative in action. It seems a contradiction but it is possible. Perceive yourself do and at the same time not being emotionally and mentally blocked, but instead act with a superior mindfulness. You will get an ENERGY FOCUS This level correspond also to the quality of being WISE. Try in your life to be detached and wise in every situation. The Power of the Graal is approaching to you You recovered it through your effort and going past all the different problem of life For getting it you must have NO FEAR NO PRIDE The reason we keep a false personality is just fear. We must let go all the masks we have And finally we can get back to the center And we can reintegrate ourself FEEL YOUR BODY You body is also your horse. Dont loose it Chivalry of the Grail This is your ultimate grail quest. The journey to face your fears and to open old wounds in a space of unconditional love and compassion so they can finally heal, allowing life-force to flow through us so fully that we can’t help but serve others through sharing our unique gifts ~ the buried treasure that had been hidden within us all along. Celtic Mystery Initiation Read and Meditate LET THESE WORDS PENETRATE YOU. TRY TO CATCH THE SYMBOLIC MEANING The tenth castle Is the castle of the Pride But Perceval is beyond Pride He wins everybody, but keeps his name hidden He just wins You too if you want to be a real Chevalier you must be beyond Pride In your life do and stay in the action. This is the old chivalry saying NON NOBIS DOMINE At this point when you are beyond you can be an accomplished warrior You can see your life is now changed. What in the past blocked you cannot block you any more Nobody can block a chevalier at this stage. A man tricks Perceval, and try to put him under a gravestone But no gravestone can block Perceval The man see that he cannot go away He comes back and Perceval is free again The automaticity of your mind cannot block you again Perceval goes again to the castle where he met the automatic chessboard where in the past he lost. But the automaticity of mind cannot block you anymore because you have connected your head to your body A child on a tree will now tell Perceval the Path ! The child is the symbol of a new self that is born