Meditation nr. 2 - Winning the trial of the EARTH Do we feel overwhelmed by life? Is there a way to connect to our real inner force? Finding your Center of FORCE This lesson will get you in contact with a part of you that is always there, and connect to which you will have focus and purpose in every action. You will have a CENTER Practice Decide first that you want to be free from appearances. Feel yourself on the ground. Follow the air as you breath And now, bring the attention at a point two centimeters under your nombril The japanese people call it hara This point is a center of energy. For information only, in the karate practice people ask to be hit there as this point has an incredible force (dont do unless you are in a practical course). For the moment try to be aware of this point For the ancient Samurai the Hara is a center of Force Under the Hara, is another secret center of force. Exactly corresponding to your sexual glands. Exercise A simple exercise to activate this center of force is just this one. Bend your self, standing on the tips of your toes, 3 times You will feel more energy. Bending in this way stimulates in reality your sexual glands RIDING AN HORSE When you are in a horse, your hara will connect to the Hara of the horse. VITRIOL VITRIOL means Visita Interiora Terrae Rectificando Invenies Occultam Lapidem This ancient saying means go to the interior of the earth and you will find the hidden stone Sometimes it will be added “Unicam Medicinam”. Because connecting to this center of force is a way of increasing also one’s health If you practise magnetism, you will be stronger If you fight and you are centered on the “Hara” you will be stronger If somebody try to block you and you are centered on the “Hara” he will not be able to do it From the “Hara” energy goes up and you can take the vertical Chivalry of the Graal We must get out from the conditioning. Years and lifetimes of wounding have been cemented over through oppression and repression of the ability to fully feel our emotions. So the trauma gets stuffed down as a way to survive, cemented over but never fully healed. The black knight lives in a tomb. But accessing this tomb we can recover freedom Perceval - Initiatic Celtic Mystery Tradition If you take the average person in life, he is a prisoner even if he thinks to be free. Prisoner of his compulsions, prisoner of his desires. He knows no more where is his center. Staying outside from our center we are as prisoner And we repeat again and again the same action The black knight is the third encounter. The black knight is a strong fighter. He lives inside a tomb. A woman in some way has captured him and put him under a sort of hypnotic spell where he stays forever This pretty woman is the symbol of appearances. The black knight had lost. But if we refer to the “secret” center of force we mentioned before connected to the genital energy, it is clear how this energy has been “trapped” like in a tomb. The black knight fights again and again with every person that goes through these places. Only Perceval wins him. And so doing frees him. Perceval wins because he opens up this deeper center A real Chevalier is always stable. He is connected through his horse (=his body) with the deepest energies of the earth. So he has FORCE If you want to win this slavery, you must take power on your attention. Attention is energy. You must direct it to the now, and physically it must go up to your second center of force. At that point Perceval enters inside the Tomb that in reality inside is a palace where there is a lot of gold. He sees gold and a serie of shields He take one of them and at the end of this encounter is stronger It means If you frees yourself from the world of appearances and you stay in the center you are in contact with the ocean of ENERGY Going to the black and free up the inner energy. This is also the hidden meaning of Vitriol NEUROPHYSIOLOGY OF THE CENTER While neuroscientists still emphasize how little we know about the brain, neuro-gastroenterological studies suggest that the human enteric nervous system (ENS) and the brain–gut axis (BGA) may play a profound role in human physiological and psychological operation. e ENS seems to be a far more complex and a more independent nervous system than was previously thought. Most probably all psychoactive drugs have an e ect on the ENS. Furthermore, current research about the ENS seems to have found correspondences to the ethnomedical concept of the lower Dantian (traditional Asian medicine), Swadhisthana (Hindu Trantrism), and the Sacral orange-colored chakra (New Age). This center is the key of access to the ENTERIC NERVOUS SYSTEM also called ENS. ENS controls the gastrointestinal system in humans. It contains 100 million neurons, and the brain contains ~100 billion (±20%). It is located in the gastrointestinal area. The ENS can be considered part of the collective whole called the autonomic nervous system (ANS), but also as an independent system of its own. ANS controls various systems, including the circulatory, respiratory, digestive, endocrine, urinary, reproductive, and integumentary (hair, skin, nails)—all of which are considered to function below the level of consciousness. The CNS and ENS are in strong communication with one another (via the BGA, brain–gut axis), and similar neurotransmitters can be found in both. The neuroplasticity of the ENS has not yet been studied.Medical studies of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) analyze the role of the brain–gut axis (BGA) in detail. It seems that the BGA is involved in various important physiological processes (regulation of glucose and fat metabolism, insulin secretion and sensitivity, and even in bone metabolism). Recent studies have revealed that even if a major neurological communication line (vagal nerve) is injured, the ENS continues to function; therefore it may be seriously considered as an independent system. Some provocative theories have proposed that the ENS may be a kind of metacontroller of the CNS. One surprising finding that supports this hypothesis is that most information travels from the alimentary canal (gut) to the brain, rather than the other way around. The correct interpretation of this discovery is not a trivial issue.Approximately 90% of the body’s serotonin is actually utilized by the gastrointestinal tract (alimentary canal) to regulate intestinal movements (the remaining 10% affecting mood, sleep, etc., at the CNS). A significant amount of dopamine is also located in the gut. There are a few studies to date that have analyzed the effects of serotonergic antidepressants on the ENS system. It is known that serotonergic antidepressants have many gastrointestinal side effects including loss of appetite and weight, urinary retention nausea, and renal failure, and that they commonly cause sexual dysfunction (Ravera et al. even question the driving safety of SSRIs—selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors—because of the reported adverse effects of anxiety, agitation, sleep disturbances, headache, increased risk of suicidal behavior, and deliberate self-harm).Neuro-gastroenterologists have certainly proved that the ENS affects mood, and further study of the ENS may help us to understand various diseases in detail. Thee role of the ENS is certainly stronger that we thought 100 years ago—bio-behavioral scientists also now postulating that emotional well-being is more dependent on signals coming from our ENS. Anxiety, Parkinson’s disease, and many other diseases have symptoms at the gut level, too