Do we go in life just following material goals or are we able in life to be aware of our higher level? Meditation nr. 6 - the Tree The initiated chevalier is in contact with the force of the Nature, and draws his energy from it The quality that corresponds to this level of awareness is INTUITION. It is in fact an intuition that permits us to get in contact with the reality in a deeper way. But intuition many times can get in error if we have to many emotions. In our path we have formerly discharged the excessive emotions. Chivalry a Western Inner Martial Art As a chevalier you will wander through forests. Trees are always around you. Trees are symbols and connections to deeper forces around you. Exercise nr. 1 Go in an open space and take contact with the Nature Exercise nr. 2 Inhale and exhale. Each time you do it take awareness of a part of your body Begin from the bottom Go toward the head Repeat 3 times After bring attention to the zone of your heart Do a sound AAAAH there take awareness of your heart The Tree and the Nature In the celtic way, trees are fundamental. In Magnetism, we see that contact with the trees opens up to a higher dimension in magnetism, The Marquis de Puysegur worked wonderful healings with the trees In order to get in contact with the tree, our conscious mind should go away and we must confound ourself with the Nature This is the meaning of the head of the Stag that confounds itself with the branches of the tree Symbolism For the Druid, the crown of the tree and its branches had a specific meaning. They were directed towards the sky and were moved by the wind; for the Celts, it was the part of the tree that signified the divine plane of consciousness, the elevated suprahuman plane. Chivalry of the Grail Celtic Mystery Initiation READ AND MEDITATE We are now at a higher level of initiation. Alchemically we are at the white stage (spirituality) and after we will enter the red stage Just try to imagine what corresponds to the different images of the ninth castle. Magical Guided Imagination To be done listening or reading and repeating trying to feel: You are Perceval. You see now an immense tree in front of you Is a tree under which even one hundred of knights could sleep This tree is the tree of life on it is is a head of deer The head of dear has become as part of the tree itself It means, that your energy should now be part of yourself and arrive until your head You can bring up the forces coming from the bottom of you, from your vegetative part Feel again your gravity. Let as an energy coming from the bottom, from your gravity arrive this energy builds your verticality If you are stable nothing can block you. You must know that a knight tried to block Perceval. But Perceval just answered boldly and won You can be affirmative in life. you are now stable Inhale and Exhale and feel yourself grounded on the floor and part of the Nature You are now no more driven by passions, desires and sensations Stay in this feeling for 30 sec minimum WHEN WE RECONNECT TO OUR ENERGY ENLIGHTENMENT BEGINS TO BE THERE WE DECIDE TO KEEP A PART OF IS AWARE OF THAT DONT LET US SUBMERGE AGAIN BY THE ILLUSORY Or a bagwyn Argent mantling azure and vert one knight helmet argent smaller torse gu and or crest one oak or //INT per pale celestial azure and azure estoilly argent //CHIEF on a chief per pale celestial azure and azure estoilly argent a cup or //ORDINARIES a base arched vert //CHARGES in fess-point an alder or in dexter chief a sun in glory or in sinister chief a moon argent smaller in abyss a sword, smaller smaller //EXT mantling or and azure //COMPARTMENT compartment vert much higher higher //CREST crest astral crown or shewn wider shorter //SUPPORTERS supporter a lion-sejant-reguardant orange much smaller wider a bagwyn orange smaller