Meditation nr. 7 Do we go through life just in our small I or are we able to transcend ourselves? A chevalier dares to go further. Beyond himself and his limits. With this over effort he touches a deeper dimension The quality that corresponds to this level is CLAIRVOYANCE. It is the capacity of TRANSCENDENCE from time and space. A more refined form if intuition where we access to higher levels ________________ The ninth castle With the former exercise you have now begun an energetic rising We can think that the tree we met in the former Meditation energy comes up along our spine and the branches are connected to divine consciousness Letting the natural energy flowing through the body (the tree) opens up to new experiences The exercise below opens up the way to a magnetic energy connected to the body. The three gates of the temple of Solomon and the Graal Read these instructions before practising them. Go in front of a mirror of initiation and look at yourself steady In alternative Create mentally a circle around you and close your eyes Now: Exercise PART 1 Inhale and exhale. Each time you do it take awareness of a part of your body Begin from the bottom Go toward the head The temple is also the human body The graal is inside ourself. This energy to awake We have three Gates to pass through and after we will be at the temple These are the three parts of our body PART 2 Inhale and let go every image from the top of your head Bad, good, no importance Let yourself go into an ecstasy (Repeat this exercise) The Graal Castle is a symbolic representation of the temple of Solomon in Jerusalem These three gates are different level of consciousness You are at the door and you should enter without pride. After having recovered the energy symbolized by the head of the Stag. Perceval meet a white splendid woman He stays in the night in the forest with her There he sees a light But it cannot go there. immediately Perceval sees a tempest In the morning the woman says: this night the Graal was there and no tempest was there It means that when we change level if we are not ready we can feel tempest in our being But this tempest is created just by our illusory attachments The enlightenment is in front of us and if we let go them we have it NOW. The TWO bridges toward the not I You are now meditating at an higher level. In some way is a moment where you can have a “passage” at another level May be the first time you do these meditations you will just feel it But progressively an opening will be there The Glass Bridge You are going on a glass bridge It is a strange bridge Immediately after you having passed the bridge breaks down in thousands of pieces But is only an illusion In reality if you have courage you can go through the bridge But if you have fear, you will never go through it. This bridge is letting go all of our former reality Let your ideas thinking memories going away as bubbles Stay before your memories, associations At the end only the I The Rotating bridge Perceval continues his magical path He meets Briol and the White castle The white is the spirituality and the transcendence But after the white castle we have the rotating bridge. The rotating bridge means a change in consciousness. We are on another level. The Rotating bridge brings back energy to ourself and we prepare for the Tournament. In some way energy comes back to the body. We learn to be at two levels at the same time. We touch the infinite and after we connect again to the here and now in the reality Go back on lesson 1 and practice again PRESENCE the whole week Be aware of yourself, of your body IN EVERY MOMENT OF THE DAY We will continue on the next lesson ! Be PREUX! Neurophysiology The crystal Palace is the name given in the eastern traditions to the connection between pineal gland and pituitary gland. “During initiation of the Crystal Palace hormones including oxytocin and vasopressin are released from the pituitary into the blood stream to facilitate the metamorphic birth. The fact that the nerves and blood vessels that feed the eyes and middle ear pass through the cavernous sinus either side of the sphenoid sinus leads us to speculate on the mechanisms behind both Celestial Music that is heard when the Crystal Place is lit up, and changes in the eyes such as light emerging from them, changes of consciousness seen in the eyes and faculty of transcendental vision itself. When the Crystal Chamber is lit transcendental vision occurs. Transcendental vision probably occurs due to increased kundalini flow raising dopamine and phenylethylamine etc...All kind of changes happen in the retinas and occipital lobes, including increased ATP production acting as a neurotransmitter and histamine increasing blood flow in the brain, and increase in nitric oxide metabolism. The end result being that one has an increase in visual acuity, inner visions, inner lights, seeing auras and vivid dreams. If you try the drug Ecstasy you are likely to see auras, and have transcendental vision so there must be some similarity in the chemical mechanism between Ecstasy and kundalini.” (Biology of Kundalini)