Meditation nr. 10 - The Grail Come back to the presence preux chevalier! Awake yourself! PEACE. The initiated chevalier able to have no fear, no pride, no slavery from the appearances will finally get to the supreme mastery. The quality corresponding to this level is ENLIGHTMENT ________________ Chivalry of the Graal You had ventured out on your individual grail quest, faced down your demons, pierced the veil {Perceval} of the unconscious conditional matrix, had their wounds healed by the priestesses in a realm of unconditional love, found the true Holy Grail, and now you return at the unity. Perceval Celtic Mystery Initiation Questions and Answers Exercise The end of the Quest (21) Perceval rides on, and towards evening sees afar off a tree upon which burn many lights; as he draws near he finds only a chapel, upon the altar of which lies a dead knight. A great and sudden light is followed by the appearance of a black hand, which puts out the candle on the altar. On the morrow he meets first a huntsman, who tells him he is near the castle, then a damsel, who explains the child in the tree, the chapel, and the black hand as having connection with the Holy Grail and the lance. (22) Perceval comes at last to the castle of the Fisher King, whom he finds on a couch as heretofore. He tells him his adventures, and asks concerning the child on the tree, the tree full of lights, and the chapel with the dead knight. Meanwhile a damsel enters a hall bearing the Grail, another follows with the bleeding lance, then comes a squire with a sword broken in two. Again Perceval puts his questions, and will not eat until they are answered. First, he is told of the child which would not speak to him on account of his many sins, and which climbed ever upwards to show man's thoughts should be raised to the Creator. Before learning aught further Perceval is to try and weld the broken sword together; none but a true knight lover of God, and of God's spouse, Holy Church, may accomplish it. Perceval succeeds, save that a little crack still remains. The Fisher King embraces him and hails him as lord of his house. The Miracle is in your hands!