 ISI-CNV THE INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY BASED ON AN INTERNATIONAL EURO-ASIAN ACADEMIC NETWORK RESEARCH IN Higher Practical Mental Sciences Neurosciences - Tibetan Mysticism - Scientific Hypnosis Western and Oriental Esoteric Paths of Power and Therapy NLP& NLP 3 — The new logical level of NLP — What’s NLP 3? NLP 3 means Neurolinguistic Programming 3. NLP 3 focuses our attention to a different logical level; it represents a development and a widening of the models that originally constituted NLP 1. Whats a logical level? A logical level is a level of analysis of reality. For example, the term “Forest” is at a different logical level from the term “Trees”; I could walk in a forest, and tell “I see only trees, I don’t see the forest.” Why? Because, in order to see the forest I must be at a different logical level. In the same manner, to a lower logical level a computer is nothing more than a mixture of plastics and metal elements, while at a higher level it becomes all that we think when we say “computer.” NLP 1 allowed to decipher the alphabet of communication; NLP 3 aids us in joining its letters in correct word-groupings —ie: techniques like anchoring or strategies are inserted in the dynamic communication-context of everyday life. Using NLP 3 means using the rights tools for Sales, Relationships, Therapy and for personal development. Some history The original title of the book “Neurolinguistic Programming” was “Neurolinguistic Programming I” the “1” meant that subsequent developments of the NLP were to come. NLP 3 is the outcome of many years of modeling. The modeled people used effective communication models and all had succes in their lifes; most of them knew already traditional NLP, but judged it “too slow” or “unhuman” and they then had developed models that didn’t enter in the traditional NLP schemes. The analysis started from the fact that NLP is a methodology, not a technique. We have then examined the operational models of such people and we have discovered that they all operated a different manner of analysis of reality. It means they operated at a different logical levels compared to the traditional schools of NLP: they —unconsciously— used NLP 3. What does NLP 3 offer me ? Emphasis in NLP 3 doesn’t fall on DOING Neurolinguistic Programming, instead it falls on learning to BE a Neurolinguistic Programmer. Our way of teaching NLP has been renewed, bringing the student to interiorize a serie of microabilities that lead to a superior awareness of the various processes in action. Emphasis has been set on the integration of the various techniques of NLP for an easy implementation of them in a wider operative context (Sale, Negotiation, Therapy, Relations, Personal Development, etc.). The system of NLP 3 also integrates (at its ground level) a series of completely new elements compared to the most traditional schools of PNL, and precisely: Pre-Verbal Symbolism in communication —the comprehension of the symbolic meaning of the gestures Use of olfactory cues in communication Gustatory cues Non verbal Hypnosis (multisensory) New ways of extracting strategies in the field of salesmanship that render obsolete the old schemes New way of doing self-hypnosis Enneagram and its connection with NLP (with a new system) A contribution to classical way of analizing metaprograms (distinguishing the persons on the basis of their questions relating to others: Persons Who, What, Why and How) A new operational diagram of values’ analysis NLP 3 is complementary to traditional PNL, and amplifies its effectiveness. THE CORE OF HYPNOSIS, MULTISENSORY HYPNOSIS, HYPNOSIS WITHOUT WORDS Hypnosis is often linked with the use of words, the right use of meaningful words. But in reality, as studies show, just the smallest part of our communication go through words, while the biggest part go through non verbal elements. This is the reason why is normally difficult to learn an hypnotic technique just from a book. Is it possible to hypnotize without using no meaningfull words at all but just these other elements? The answer is surely yes. We can use codes and elements of our social non verbal communication to bring people in a trance deeper than any trance they had ever experienced. Every phrase we use in our normal communication has a non verbal meaning and the words exist just as substitutes for things or other non verbal codes. When we are able to express without words phrases such "sleep", "relax", "is not important that your conscious mind hear, the important is that your subconsciuous mind understand" or "is important that you have a sincere subconscious movement" or other, we come surely to a better understanding of what hypnosis really is. It is fundamental to be able to understand what is the logic standing behind the words of the ericksonian inductions, or of the "Elmanlike" induction or any other possible induction. Using certain gestures (non verbal communication), we can put animals in a trance. The principle behind is valid for human persons, too. Normally, to hypnotize animals, we have to catch and block them, and after we use passes, or gaze, to hold their attention in a certain direction. For instance, to hypnotize a chicken, we have to force the hen's head flat to the ground, and to draw a line directly out from its beak. The animal will stay staring at this line; to hypnotize a guinea pig we have to roll the animal over and over some time on the table, and then lay it on its back. And the guinea pig will remain quiescent. We can suppose that these way of acting break some of the normal schemas of reacting of these animals and in some way suggest them to mantain their position without moving.