 ISI-CNV THE INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY BASED ON AN INTERNATIONAL EURO-ASIAN ACADEMIC NETWORK RESEARCH IN Higher Practical Mental Sciences Neurosciences - Tibetan Mysticism - Scientific Hypnosis Western and Oriental Esoteric Paths of Power and Therapy NLP& NLP 3 — The new logical level of NLP — What’s NLP 3? NLP 3 means Neurolinguistic Programming 3. NLP 3 focuses our attention to a different logical level; it represents a development and a widening of the models that originally constituted NLP 1. Whats a logical level? A logical level is a level of analysis of reality. For example, the term “Forest” is at a different logical level from the term “Trees”; I could walk in a forest, and tell “I see only trees, I don’t see the forest.” Why? Because, in order to see the forest I must be at a different logical level. In the same manner, to a lower logical level a computer is nothing more than a mixture of plastics and metal elements, while at a higher level it becomes all that we think when we say “computer.” NLP 1 allowed to decipher the alphabet of communication; NLP 3 aids us in joining its letters in correct word-groupings —ie: techniques like anchoring or strategies are inserted in the dynamic communication-context of everyday life. Using NLP 3 means using the rights tools for Sales, Relationships, Therapy and for personal development. Some history The original title of the book “Neurolinguistic Programming” was “Neurolinguistic Programming I” the “1” meant that subsequent developments of the NLP were to come. NLP 3 is the outcome of many years of modeling. The modeled people used effective communication models and all had succes in their lifes; most of them knew already traditional NLP, but judged it “too slow” or “unhuman” and they then had developed models that didn’t enter in the traditional NLP schemes. The analysis started from the fact that NLP is a methodology, not a technique. We have then examined the operational models of such people and we have discovered that they all operated a different manner of analysis of reality. It means they operated at a different logical levels compared to the traditional schools of NLP: they —unconsciously— used NLP 3. What does NLP 3 offer me ? Emphasis in NLP 3 doesn’t fall on DOING Neurolinguistic Programming, instead it falls on learning to BE a Neurolinguistic Programmer. Our way of teaching NLP has been renewed, bringing the student to interiorize a serie of microabilities that lead to a superior awareness of the various processes in action. Emphasis has been set on the integration of the various techniques of NLP for an easy implementation of them in a wider operative context (Sale, Negotiation, Therapy, Relations, Personal Development, etc.). The system of NLP 3 also integrates (at its ground level) a series of completely new elements compared to the most traditional schools of PNL, and precisely: Pre-Verbal Symbolism in communication —the comprehension of the symbolic meaning of the gestures Use of olfactory cues in communication Gustatory cues Non verbal Hypnosis (multisensory) New ways of extracting strategies in the field of salesmanship that render obsolete the old schemes New way of doing self-hypnosis Enneagram and its connection with NLP (with a new system) A contribution to classical way of analizing metaprograms (distinguishing the persons on the basis of their questions relating to others: Persons Who, What, Why and How) A new operational diagram of values’ analysis NLP 3 is complementary to traditional PNL, and amplifies its effectiveness. THE CORE OF HYPNOSIS, MULTISENSORY HYPNOSIS, HYPNOSIS WITHOUT WORDS Hypnosis is often linked with the use of words, the right use of meaningful words. But in reality, as studies show, just the smallest part of our communication go through words, while the biggest part go through non verbal elements. This is the reason why is normally difficult to learn an hypnotic technique just from a book. Is it possible to hypnotize without using no meaningfull words at all but just these other elements? The answer is surely yes. We can use codes and elements of our social non verbal communication to bring people in a trance deeper than any trance they had ever experienced. Every phrase we use in our normal communication has a non verbal meaning and the words exist just as substitutes for things or other non verbal codes. When we are able to express without words phrases such "sleep", "relax", "is not important that your conscious mind hear, the important is that your subconsciuous mind understand" or "is important that you have a sincere subconscious movement" or other, we come surely to a better understanding of what hypnosis really is. It is fundamental to be able to understand what is the logic standing behind the words of the ericksonian inductions, or of the "Elmanlike" induction or any other possible induction. Using certain gestures (non verbal communication), we can put animals in a trance. The principle behind is valid for human persons, too. Normally, to hypnotize animals, we have to catch and block them, and after we use passes, or gaze, to hold their attention in a certain direction. For instance, to hypnotize a chicken, we have to force the hen's head flat to the ground, and to draw a line directly out from its beak. The animal will stay staring at this line; to hypnotize a guinea pig we have to roll the animal over and over some time on the table, and then lay it on its back. And the guinea pig will remain quiescent. We can suppose that these way of acting break some of the normal schemas of reacting of these animals and in some way suggest them to mantain their position without moving. There are strong analogies with the multisensory method of hypnosis. To hypnotize people, we have to create "rapport" involving them in the situation, bypass their abitudinary schema of references and reactions and then offer them a new direction. We can think to a person coming visiting a famous professor: this person will come in, and will be overhelmed by all the titles hanging on the wall of the office of the professor. This person will be ready to accept the directions from the professor: this person will have been hypnotized by all the elements present in the room. In a non verbal induction we will act upon the same lines, in a very easy and simple way. A BIT OF HISTORY Multisensory induction is the common way of inducing a trance in a lot of cultures. The use of not understable spells and symbols is very ancient. Magic words (words that a person cannot understand) are used in every magic ritual. The multisensory hypnosis is a way of using the principles behind these rituals for creating an induction fast and easy. We don't use magic symbols, but we create a very powerful enviroment through the right use of the non verbal communication. AN EXAMPLE OF A NON VERBAL INDUCTION WITHOUT WORDS It is really easier and faster to bypass the normal schema of references and reactions of a person with non verbal elements than with verbal elements. Here is an example of a non verbal induction: The hypnotist (to subject): please stay there and don't move subject stay without moving The hypnotist begin to make some gesture and begin to use some strange, (not understable) words and sounds, and after some seconds the subject begin to sway The hypnotist follow him non verbally helping him to sway more The hypnotist catch the subject and place him on a seat The subject having stiff legs, the hypnotist make soothing passes and the subject relax himself The hypnotist begin the hypnotherapy part. We can call this kind of induction "multisensory" because we use more senses together and not just the words. It is very usefull to have the ability to use a multisensory induction. If sometime we find people that doesn't like certain words, or that do strange associations to common words this technique is very useful. The big power of the right use of sounds and meaningless words is to avoid such problems, giving each one what really want. The validity of this system is proved by the fact that it is the most ancient existing method of hypnosis. People extremely rational react better to this kind of hypnosis than to any other because they have no more possibility to rationalize what is happening. Obviously, these techniques are very useful too for hypnotist travelling abroad in non english speaking countries. A BIT OF THEORY Dave Elman defined hypnosis as "the bypassing of the critical factor and the installing of selective thinking". We find this definition very useful, but we prefer to say, instead of saying "bypassing the critical factor" to say "bypassing the normal schema of references and reactions of a person". When we are in an enviroment where we don't know how to act properly, we will catch each suggestion we receive very rapidly, and we will adopt rapidly new schemas of action. But, in order to find the old schema unuseful and not sufficient we need to be emotionally involved in the situation. There are a lot of things we don't understand in the world, but we don't accept to say that our schema of analysis is insufficient until we are not emotionally involved. THE USE OF NON VERBAL COMMUNICATION IN A MULTISENSORY INDUCTION In a multisensory induction, we will adopt the non verbal communication for three purposes: 1. getting the clients emotionally involved 2. bringing him to change his schema of seeing things 3. giving non verbal suggestions For sake of simplicity, we can divide in categories the different non verbal elements we can use: Paralinguistic — Tone, inflection, and includes the power of no-meaning words Prossemic — The use of distance and movement in creating a social rapport Kinesic and gaze — Movements of the hands; Mesmeric passes; the social meaning of the gaze Digital — Discover the hidden power of touch Every verbal induction normally use some of the forementioned elements, but the most important thing is to integrate all of them together in a very powerful and strong blend at the same time understanding which is the most useful in a certain moment. The "rapport" we can get using such elements is so strong that each therapeutic change happens really easier and faster than with any other method. The reason of this strong "rapport" is in the fact that we don't communicate on the surface (as when we use just words); instead we communicate on a more deep and profound level, involving emotionally our client. We don't need to do complex verbal reeducations or reframings before of doing this kind of hypnosis, and this because we do them already non verbally. We need about 2 to 4 minutes to bring people in "deep hypnosis" and you'll find astonishing results and incredible therapeutic possibilities. One of the most important thing to follow in a non verbal induction is the feedback of the client; here are some of the most important elements to check: SOME ELEMENTS OF FEEDBACK IN A MULTISENSORY INDUCTION: 1. Swaying — Phisical swaying means mental swaying; disponibility to let himself go. 2. No reaction when touched — Acceptance of the hypnotist. 3. Swallowing — Emotional response. 4. Cataleptic arms — Acceptance of non-verbal suggestions. 5. Relaxed arms — Not enough involvement in the rapport.