NLP 3 is the outcome of many years of modeling. The modeled people used effective communication models and all had succes in their lifes; most of them knew already traditional NLP, but judged it “too slow” or “unhuman” and they then had developed models that didn’t enter in the traditional NLP schemes. The analysis started from the fact that NLP is a methodology, not a technique. We have then examined the operational models of such people and we have discovered that they all operated a different manner of analysis of reality. It means they operated at a different logical levels compared to the traditional schools of NLP: they —unconsciously— used NLP 3. What does NLP 3 offer me ? Emphasis in NLP 3 doesn’t fall on DOING Neurolinguistic Programming, instead it falls on learning to BE a Neurolinguistic Programmer. Our way of teaching NLP has been renewed, bringing the student to interiorize a serie of microabilities that lead to a superior awareness of the various processes in action. Emphasis has been set on the integration of the various techniques of NLP for an easy implementation of them in a wider operative context (Sale, Negotiation, Therapy, Relations, Personal Development, etc.). The system of NLP 3 also integrates (at its ground level) a series of completely new elements compared to the most traditional schools of PNL, and precisely: Pre-Verbal Symbolism in communication —the comprehension of the symbolic meaning of the gestures Use of olfactory cues in communication Gustatory cues Non verbal Hypnosis (multisensory) New ways of extracting strategies in the field of salesmanship that render obsolete the old schemes New way of doing self-hypnosis Enneagram and its connection with NLP (with a new system) A contribution to classical way of analizing metaprograms (distinguishing the persons on the basis of their questions relating to others: Persons Who, What, Why and How) A new operational diagram of values’ analysis NLP 3 is complementary to traditional PNL, and amplifies its effectiveness. THE CORE OF HYPNOSIS, MULTISENSORY HYPNOSIS, HYPNOSIS WITHOUT WORDS Hypnosis is often linked with the use of words, the right use of meaningful words. But in reality, as studies show, just the smallest part of our communication go through words, while the biggest part go through non verbal elements. This is the reason why is normally difficult to learn an hypnotic technique just from a book. Is it possible to hypnotize without using no meaningfull words at all but just these other elements? The answer is surely yes. We can use codes and elements of our social non verbal communication to bring people in a trance deeper than any trance they had ever experienced. Every phrase we use in our normal communication has a non verbal meaning and the words exist just as substitutes for things or other non verbal codes. When we are able to express without words phrases such "sleep", "relax", "is not important that your conscious mind hear, the important is that your subconsciuous mind understand" or "is important that you have a sincere subconscious movement" or other, we come surely to a better understanding of what hypnosis really is. It is fundamental to be able to understand what is the logic standing behind the words of the ericksonian inductions, or of the "Elmanlike" induction or any other possible induction. Using certain gestures (non verbal communication), we can put animals in a trance. The principle behind is valid for human persons, too. Normally, to hypnotize animals, we have to catch and block them, and after we use passes, or gaze, to hold their attention in a certain direction. For instance, to hypnotize a chicken, we have to force the hen's head flat to the ground, and to draw a line directly out from its beak. The animal will stay staring at this line; to hypnotize a guinea pig we have to roll the animal over and over some time on the table, and then lay it on its back. And the guinea pig will remain quiescent. We can suppose that these way of acting break some of the normal schemas of reacting of these animals and in some way suggest them to mantain their position without moving. There are strong analogies with the multisensory method of hypnosis. To hypnotize people, we have to create "rapport" involving them in the situation, bypass their abitudinary schema of references and reactions and then offer them a new direction. We can think to a person coming visiting a famous professor: this person will come in, and will be overhelmed by all the titles hanging on the wall of the office of the professor. This person will be ready to accept the directions from the professor: this person will have been hypnotized by all the elements present in the room. In a non verbal induction we will act upon the same lines, in a very easy and simple way. A BIT OF HISTORY Multisensory induction is the common way of inducing a trance in a lot of cultures. The use of not understable spells and symbols is very ancient. Magic words (words that a person cannot understand) are used in every magic ritual. The multisensory hypnosis is a way of using the principles behind these rituals for creating an induction fast and easy. We don't use magic symbols, but we create a very powerful enviroment through the right use of the non verbal communication. AN EXAMPLE OF A NON VERBAL INDUCTION WITHOUT WORDS It is really easier and faster to bypass the normal schema of references and reactions of a person with non verbal elements than with verbal elements. Here is an example of a non verbal induction: The hypnotist (to subject): please stay there and don't move subject stay without moving The hypnotist begin to make some gesture and begin to use some strange, (not understable) words and sounds, and after some seconds the subject begin to sway The hypnotist follow him non verbally helping him to sway more The hypnotist catch the subject and place him on a seat The subject having stiff legs, the hypnotist make soothing passes and the subject relax himself The hypnotist begin the hypnotherapy part. We can call this kind of induction "multisensory" because we use more senses together and not just the words. It is very usefull to have the ability to use a multisensory induction. If sometime we find people that doesn't like certain words, or that do strange associations to common words this technique is very useful. The big power of the right use of sounds and meaningless words is to avoid such problems, giving each one what really want. The validity of this system is proved by the fact that it is the most ancient existing method of hypnosis. People extremely rational react better to this kind of hypnosis than to any other because they have no more possibility to rationalize what is happening. Obviously, these techniques are very useful too for hypnotist travelling abroad in non english speaking countries. A BIT OF THEORY Dave Elman defined hypnosis as "the bypassing of the critical factor and the installing of selective thinking". We find this definition very useful, but we prefer to say, instead of saying "bypassing the critical factor" to say "bypassing the normal schema of references and reactions of a person". When we are in an enviroment where we don't know how to act properly, we will catch each suggestion we receive very rapidly, and we will adopt rapidly new schemas of action. But, in order to find the old schema unuseful and not sufficient we need to be emotionally involved in the situation. There are a lot of things we don't understand in the world, but we don't accept to say that our schema of analysis is insufficient until we are not emotionally involved. THE USE OF NON VERBAL COMMUNICATION IN A MULTISENSORY INDUCTION In a multisensory induction, we will adopt the non verbal communication for three purposes: 1. getting the clients emotionally involved 2. bringing him to change his schema of seeing things 3. giving non verbal suggestions For sake of simplicity, we can divide in categories the different non verbal elements we can use: Paralinguistic — Tone, inflection, and includes the power of no-meaning words Prossemic — The use of distance and movement in creating a social rapport Kinesic and gaze — Movements of the hands; Mesmeric passes; the social meaning of the gaze Digital — Discover the hidden power of touch Every verbal induction normally use some of the forementioned elements, but the most important thing is to integrate all of them together in a very powerful and strong blend at the same time understanding which is the most useful in a certain moment. The "rapport" we can get using such elements is so strong that each therapeutic change happens really easier and faster than with any other method. The reason of this strong "rapport" is in the fact that we don't communicate on the surface (as when we use just words); instead we communicate on a more deep and profound level, involving emotionally our client. We don't need to do complex verbal reeducations or reframings before of doing this kind of hypnosis, and this because we do them already non verbally. We need about 2 to 4 minutes to bring people in "deep hypnosis" and you'll find astonishing results and incredible therapeutic possibilities. One of the most important thing to follow in a non verbal induction is the feedback of the client; here are some of the most important elements to check: SOME ELEMENTS OF FEEDBACK IN A MULTISENSORY INDUCTION: 1. Swaying — Phisical swaying means mental swaying; disponibility to let himself go. 2. No reaction when touched — Acceptance of the hypnotist. 3. Swallowing — Emotional response. 4. Cataleptic arms — Acceptance of non-verbal suggestions. 5. Relaxed arms — Not enough involvement in the rapport. 6. Tensed (resisting) arms — Lack of confidence in the hypnotist. 7. Laughing — The subject is in a situation in wich he feels the insufficiency of his normal schema of references; he is not in complete cointrol of the situation; for this reason could be the best moment to use a very direct approach. Normal phases in a Non Verbal Technique Seance are: 1) REP (positive empathic rapport) 2) Introduction of analog elements (elements creating emotional tension) 3) Introduction of symbolic elements (these elements break the old schemas) 4) Analog tests (optional; consist in non verbal suggestions) 5) Passing test (optional: show us if the subject is ready for the intervention) 6) intervention (multisensory hypnotherapy) MULTISENSORY HYPNOTHERAPY It is very simple and depends on the efficacity of the preceding induction; you use words to suggests some images that bring in the direction you want. You don't need to be logic; you need just that what you do be very integrated in a whole idea suggesting the change. Very useful is speaking directly to the subconscious as it were a separate identity. Very useful is too the use of symbolic elements during the hypnotherapeutic phase. MULTISENSORY POST-INTERVENTION HYPNOTHERAPY Giving exercises to do to the client enhance the results; you can structurate the exercises in such a way to give the clients: 1. blocks (you don't have to do something during the week) 2. obligations (you must do something, such as hearing a audiotape) These two little elements will make dramatically rise your the results rate. MULTISENSORY HYPNOSIS AND ERICKSONIAN HYPNOTHERAPY Ericksonian hypnotherapy involves the use of complex phrases and expressions; through the correct use of the non verbal communication, you can get the client very involved in what you say and each word you use will have a stronger emphasis. Erickson had a strong personality making a powerfull impression on his clients; but a powerful personality is just a matter of non-verbal communication; using a multisensory induction we can get the client in the same state of mind that a "strong personality" creates, and this because he will be involved emotionally in in the situation. USE OF NON VERBAL ELEMENTS IN SELLING Selling means getting the client emotionally involved in the possible use of a product; utilizing non verbal elements we can involve emotionally a client in the situation he is living and in what we are saying. The same approach we use in hypnosis we can use in selling. NON VERBAL COMMUNICATION AND SUBMODALITIES Through the right non-verbal communication we will change the submodalities of the internal representations of the client; and for this reason we will be able to do submodalities work easier and faster. PEOPLE THAT COULD FIND VERY HELPFUL THESE TECHNIQUES Hypnotherapists seeking new types of techniques for augmenting their effectiviness Hypnotherapists looking for a kind of hypnosis without most of the standard external aspects of hypnosis Reaserchers of the dynamics of hypnosis seraching for a new way of observing hypnotic phenomena Hypnotherapists working in the spiritual field and looking for an adapt type of induction. People looking for something really NEW in the field of hypnosis. NLPers that will gain a new interesting insight in what they do and will learn something new about olfactory and gustative cues and their meaning. Who’s Dr. Marco Paret? Dr. Marco Paret is the founder and Director of the ISI-CNV International Institute for NLP (NeuroLinguistic Programming), Hypnosis, NCV (Non Verbal Communication), Leadership and Coaching. Dr. Marco Paret’s Curriculum Vitae Dr. Marco Paret graduated at Turin’s University, in Italy. Fascinated by the psychological underlying dynamics that rule corporate business, human relations, and society in general, he has undertaken specialization in the new frontiers of apllied psychology by training with the leading experts in the field. When Marco Paret finally discovered NLP and hypnosis, he immediately realized the potentials that the combination of these two disciplines offered, and since then he never ceased investigating them and bringing his personal contributions in the field. Dr. Paret is an NLP Master Trainer. Dr. Paret has studied in depth linguistics, as a fact his passion for this field led him to speak fluently various languages as well as achieving a good grasp of many others. Dr.Paret comfortably speaks english, french, german, and — less fluently — spanish, russian, polish and czech. Marco Paret also studied the grammar and the linguistic structure of many other languages, among them: classical arabic, dutch, classical and vulgar latin, greek, ancient french, sanskrit and other languages and dialects less known, or even dead. This skill in penetrating languages of Dr.Marco Paret contributed to render him a fine knower of the subtle relation that exists between language, grammatical and syintactic structure and thought — essential for the development of new NLP patterns and paradigms. Dr. Marco Paret has in fact developed a whole set of new patterns that interweave hypnotic communication techniques with NLP. Also, he has conduced an in-depth study of the Enneagram and its applications in a modern perspective. He has also developed a new didactic method for teaching languages which differs from that of classical suggestopedy. Inspired by hydden-traditions, he has also created various interesting modellings, the most significant of them being the Eneagramm sensory-based model (Instant Enneagram) and the techniques pertaining states-of-consciousness. Along the years, Dr. Paret has held many conferences in the USA as well as other countries, thus meeting most of the leading american hypnotists. He has been often invited to italian television shows as an expert in hypnosis and NLP. Marco Paret has held high quality training in many italian cities and holds an agreement with an important national trade union (SINAPE, the sole and biggest union for emerging professions) for the conduction of workshops regarding hypnosis and NLP aimed at training professionals. At present he runs, behind commision from the Regional Secretary, this activity in the area of Turin city and is responsible for the diffusion of the subjects he teaches. Dr.Paret is President of the Association “Programmazione Neurolinguistica”, and has conceived and developed the new professional figure of “expert in non-verbal communication with specialization in graphology”, which has been admitted in the county of Lombardia as a rank in the working career — as a fact, he has created a totally new professional field.