On forcibly separating her head from the wall, it went back with a stiffness which seemed to me inimitable by voluntary muscular action.” In our courses we explain these feats. In the future we will even activate a complete course of study in these phenomena. Actually some of these teaching are in the course “train the trainers” It is a discipline that creates effects that are impressive many times not only for the subject but even for the experimenter. In real hypno-mentalism we can have contact mind reading, thelepatic effects based on the “psychic atmosphere” we create with the subject, reading people based on physiognomy and other elements, and having the subject reacting hypnotically to the non verbal orders of the operator. The subject has always the eyes open and no trance or post hypnotic suggestion is used. Uses in real life of these skills are in: better understanding people at deeper levels than the verbal one, communicating with the unconscious mind, having reaction to non verbal symbols and intentions. Hypno-magnetism: enhancing magnetic effects with hypnotic elements. Sometimes we can use hypno-magnetism for clairvoyance, or for healing people. Hypno-magnetism is based on mesmerism and is the basis for some strange effects that can even happen at a distance… Is like a subtle force in action that probably can be explained in quantistic terms. everything is interconnected in the universe, and in some way we touch this deeper level. In hypno-magnetism we can have distant influence, distant healing, magnetic healing enhanced by hypnotic techniques, clairvoyance etc.. Uses in real life of hypno-magnetism are in: intuition and creativity development, healing, etc… Real Hypno-mentalism and hypno-magnetism can be allied and combined. Hypnomagnetic responses can trigger hypnomentalistic reactions. Our goal is both to bring to the present world the knowledge of these powerful techniques in many case almost forgotten, both to empower the practitioner of real abilities and capabilities. About REAL hypno-mentalism: This is the real stuff… no add ons of other types should be used. It is true that there are some performers that say achieve hypno-mentalism effects, but sometimes they use psychological tricks instead of relying on pure intuition. In this blog we speak instead of the real stuff that has to do with developing our mind potential. Pure and Real mental magic. Real Hypno-mentalism should be done without any help of the rational mind. It must be done in the more real and participative way and requires an adequate ambiance, and the effects will be striking! In fact if you use psychological tricks you activate your cortical responses and reduce your deeper concentration and will rely on your rationality. Here we delve instead deep inside our mind and we use these exercises as a training for intuition and sensitivity. The performer should always start from the idea that he will get the effect exactly as previewed. Mind and non verbal communication will create the necessary athmosphere. We can ally to the forementioned disciplines the capability of reading the physiognomy and the non verbal communication of a person, in order to better “enter” in him/her Hermetic Magnetism – Accessing The secret energy of the mind This course will bring us into the deeper meaning of magnetism The cages from which it is harder to get out are invisible. They are our fears, insecurities , prejudices . But the keys to the inner freedom are already in our hands , we just need to learn how to use them. Do you want to broaden your horizonsl ? Gain a new awareness of the reality that surrounds us ? Make concrete and clear actions for developing the real you during your lifetime? This course not only shows us that it is possible, but , through many exercises and symbols for a fitness of body and mind, also shows us the path to follow to fully realize all our physical and intellectual potential . It teaches us to relax the muscles and internal organs , to revitalize the breath, to dominate the negative thoughts and compulsions that are detrimental to our health, to detoxify the mind of fixations , to increase our creative power . The magnetic force that sleeps within us can and must be awakened from its daily trance , which prevents us to gain the happiness and success , but first you need to retrieve an authentic perception of time, rediscover the energy potential of our sexuality lived in all its fullness , shake off the stiffness and tension blockers result of bad habits that finally we will be able to eradicate. PROGRAM - the true origin of magnetism - western esotericism - symbols - practice the egyptian tradition - astral travel - distant healing - distant influence - inner alchemy techniques to boost energy and consciousness How Long? 1 day and a half PREREQUISITE Magnetic Path and most of all our course of presence TRAIN THE TRAINERS This course prevede a focus on active and experiential training transformational. Here will be shown techniques that increase self-control and the ability to communicate at multiple levels held alongside me nt. A radical deepening of the technology and techniques of NLP-3 and Non Verbal Communication and an important step for your individual improvement. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS The course shall issue the certificate of international TRAINER. FEE: Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION One day + personal coaching First day: - Developing the science and art of teaching - Method LuxMin d ® for the memory - Method LuxMin d ® for fast reading and reading photo - Fast reading and development of creativity - Advanced linguistic models and metaphors - The art of silent control PERSONAL COACHING: We will do whatever is necessary to make you a better trainer: - Learning Strategies - Linear thinking and systems thinking - Public speaking - Voice and look - Managing a group - Advanced skills of modeling - The filters learning - Trance and motivation information for PEOPLE wanting to become A PROFESSIONAL BECOMING AN OPERATOR Our course aim to form professionals. If you wish, you can also open a center in collaboration or even a chapter or a branch in your country. This is a very good moment for collaborating with the school as we are expanding. INCLUSION IN THE LISTS OF PROFESSIONAL A sure guarantee for the operators is also the inclusion in the 'PROFESSIONAL LISTING”. This LIST show the professionals and was created for moral protection of real operators. Among the results of this commitment we also remember the possibility to collaborate inside CAIRN. TRAINING AND PRACTICE The School allows the possibility of collaboration for students who prove capable. Many teachers have started from being students. The internship is an exciting opportunity to practice for those who want to become operator. This experience allows it to receive advice to improve and become professional. INTERNSHIP We give every information necessary to become an operator. CONTINUING EDUCATION For many years our school has promoted the model of the "Continuing Education "and every certificate issued specifically mentions this need. The school organizes regular moments of continuing education, as well as recognize professional updates carried out to various institutions. iNFORMATIONS ON OUR LINEAGES Dr, Paret’s teaching stay on the shoulders of giants as he personally researched and met the most powerful magnetists and fascinators existing. He was also initiated in various groups that continued the old tradition Mesmerismus © and Campanelli’s system: our lineage connects directly to Campanelli for the stop smoking system. Dr, Paret was the person that personally brought to the world the Campanellli’s method for stopping smoking in 55 seconds. Campanelli’s fame, punctuated by astounding results and corroborated by unimpeachable testimonies, appears to be truly unassailable. His is an unbelievable, amazing, unparalleled case, which has been studied by worldwide famous scientific celebrities, who have analyzed the phenomenon of his person and sealed their reports by stating the following: <<The relevant facts are true, and yet they are devoid of any plausible explanations in terms of ordinary therapeutic techniques>>2. Formerly an advocate practicing from his study in central Rome and an inveterate smoker, Campanelli, following a meeting with Hermann Michel, was so impressed by the fact he had succeeded in quitting smoking that he wanted to learn Michel’s magnetic and hypnotic techniques. He eventually became, in his own right, a healer specialized in removing the bad habit of smoking from fellow humans. The roster of his patients, both Italians and foreigners, include the following: The winner of the Nobel Prize for peace Shimon Peres, King Hussein of Jordan, Margareth von Trotta, Maurizio Costanzo, Mariangela Melato, Bruno Zevi, Margherita Boniver, and Maurizio Ferrara. Fascination and Hypno-Magnetism: dr, Paret is a disciple of Prof. Erminio Di Pisa. Prof. Erminio di Pisa was a person marked by exceptional charm and energy. He specialized in instant hypnosis and in instant healing especially. He was also a medium (= a psychic). Though he lived and worked in Milan, he travelled abroad as well. He was for instance in South Korea following an invitation. Therein, he carried out experiments which drew a large crowd of people interested in them. He chaired the Astrological Association of the Light since 1973, and acted as director of the Centre of Instant Hypnosis. At the age of 14, he fully devoted himself to the study of hypnotic techniques. He has hypnotized more than 250.000 persons. For several years, both the Italian state-owned radio and television have shown us his parapsychic exploits: Collective hypnosis of a theatre audience, distance paranormal healing, announcing the final result of the “Corsa Tris”, a horseracing event, fifteen minutes before it even started, and so on. Mesmer. The method elaborated by F. A. Mesmer allows healing to take place quite rapidly, especially when a group is formed and symbols are utilized. Many techniques come from the lineage Mesmer ? Puysegur ?Du Potet ? Durville . Historically speaking, magnetism after Mesmer continued with Puysegur and his disciple Baron du Potet, whose pioneering efforts were then taken further by the Durville brothers. The Durville brothers founded a secret order and we continue directly some of their techniques. Fascination: our lineage comes from Virgilio T. and Donato. Virgilio, one of the persons who inspired us the most in the field of animal magnetism, is capable of instantly fascinating another person. Donato is a historically significant powerful character who inspired tens of individuals and experimenters, and who transformed the way animal magnetism was perceived during the previous century. He would fascinate through the look, and he impressed the whole of Europe due to his incredible ability. His opponents, too, had to bow to his mastery. Though we are unable to prove it, there might even be a direct link between the said two individuals, given the far-reaching similarities in their methods of work. Donato, after all, performed for a long time in Turin, a city where he was even subjected to a scholarly examination by the renowned Professor Morselli, who authored a book about him. Virgilio’s own master likewise lived only a few kilometers away from Turin, and he might well have learnt some techniques from one of Donato’s students. What is certain is the existence of a high degree of mutual similarities in terms of techniques and approaches, so much so that the book “Fascination Magnétique”, written and inspired by Donato, might have equally been produced by our master Virgilio Torrizzano. Presence: our lineage comes from a school of presence of Nice and J.P. de Giudicelli (Rose Cross and other groups) Hermeticism: we have connection to various ancient groups that we are not authorized to publicise on a booklet for the vaster public but we will answer to direct emails. Question and Answers What does it means an International Approach to the Inner Development and to the research? Most people coming in Europe or in Cairn seat in Nepal doen't have the possibility of the indeep exploration of the ancient and esotheric knowledge. Even for people living in situ is difficult to approach some subjects. Our goal is to advance the research in this field the world, and also to create a network of people interested in a global approach. When you come to our trainings, you have the possibility to reach new knowledge under the guidance of people knowing the different traditions.. The reason for International researches The field of Personal development is strongly affected by the different kind of cultures. But there is even something similar between cultures. our goal is to help you to find these elements, and for this aim we have created our international network putting together east and west, old and new, in the quest of the most effective and most interesting elements, and mantaing all ties to the real lineages. TEAM OF ISI-CNV Researchers Dr. Marco Paret ? ?? Direttore dell’ISI-CNV Founder and director of ISI-CNV, speaks various languages Site http://marco-paret.pnl-3.com/ Prof. Aldo Setti Comunication Professor at Università Telematica Guglielmo Marconi di Roma. Sito www.aldosetti.com Prof. Giuliano Capani Prof. At University of Salento. Expert in tarantism.