What we name reality is purely the light that gets reflected on the different objects. Every visible object is already potentially present in the white light. Many experiences share the experience of light. When we observe light and, even more significantly, when we are able to discern or imagine white light even if our eyes are shut, we are drawing close to the “totipotent field", which is in turn quite closely related to the concept of "quantum field". FEE: Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - The physical level - The mental level - The emotional level - Concept of consciousness - Exercises presence - Separation of layers - Magnetic massage and ipnogeno Second day: - Techniques for anxiety, discomfort, negative thoughts - Recovery of the concept of consciousness - Purpose of the presence - Exercises for awareness - False core - Essential core - Exercises of presence in the mirror Magnetic Massage Inside the course will be presented the magnetic massage: you can also become an operator. In our school, a leader in non-verbal methods, we have also developed two extremely empowering technologies that multiply the result of Magnetism and even hypnosis also opening a new professional direction. Although the name 'massage' is used, the techniques taught can be carried out by anyone. If you learn from a professional masseur can be a bridge to combine hypnosis and magnetism in their practice. This is an unique technologies based on direct transmissions and experiences of dr. Paret (massage ipnogeno) and not spread in the same way in any other school, with powerful therapeutic results. The complete methodology is presented within the Master in Quantum Physiology (Quantum Presence) so that those who attend the course and Mesmerismus presence Quatum can also become operator of magnetic massage attending also a small personal coaching LUXMIND and quantum Psi technologies -A new technology for the mind- Quantum Psi is a new technology that rediscovers the fundamentals of human genius and of the highest achievements of the mind. It is based on recent theoretical research. In our school is combined with practical elements that make learning easy and immediate: in fact in the courses using for a number of elements (specific rhythms, ideas, etc ...) that make it a feasible, immediate and simple application of the model to every practical purposes . Luxmind is about releasing the power of the mind. It is an advanced technology spread all over our courses. Among the usefulness of this technique is that we use the power of our mind to work on multiple items at the same time and make instant assessments with the power of a quantum computer human. It is the key of genius, creativity, and for the highest achievements of the human spirit. It is also method of learning that improves vision of associations and connections between the various elements. This Quantum Discipline is a new class of science is completely different from the others that preceded it. By its very nature is interdisciplinary. It starts from the ideas to which modern research has opened and applies them in new areas such as the psychological and social. Therefore applies the uncertainty principle, the superposition of quantum states etc ... Techniques and concepts - A small glossary We have developed many new techniques and applications. In specific Quantum Psi has been connected to the system LuxMind in the unique and powerful paradigm of Quantum Extreme ®. Here is a short glossary of some of the key concepts of the techniques of Quantum Extreme ®: 1. Mental initialization: is the determination of the starting point of a transformation or a creative process of our mind 2. Register of mental states and possible informations: determining the number of possible states, that is the starting point for quantum operations and the creation of a coherent superposition. At this point, our unconscious mind can begin to operate 3. Interference from one item to the other: the act of an element on the set of transformations (calculations) quantum. Examples of interference are for example those made by symbolic elements. 4. Quantum Correlation/Entanglement: the fact that the two elements can come into contact and subsequently maintain a ratio (entanglement) between them. This concept applies even to magnetism, where people entangle at a distance and create distant reactions 5. Equilibrium/Balance is the central position that eliminates dissipative situations 6. Amplification of mental coherence The use of elements and rhythms that amplify the extreme quantum mode. 7. Reducing information: the reduction of the amount of information to a single element 8. Implicated order and explicate order: the two positions 9. Coherence and Decoherence of neuronal information: We need concentration. For a quantum computation can take place it is essential that the information remains consistent and is not lost to the environment 10. Holographic Model: the holographic model is essential to constitute a theory of learning and information retrieval. Approach implies a "top-down". 11. Presence and consciousness and their relationship with the implicate order. Presence can be a pathway to accede to the implicate order starting from the explicate order 12. Phase and Frequency: The information you have the same phase can be combined more easily. The interference patterns apply to this situation The model of reality of Quantum PSI Quantum Psi observes reality by dividing it into layers. In fact, we live in our own subjective universe. We stratify it on the basis of our experiences and this is what is meant by common sense as existence. Quantum Psi assumes that there is also something before everything: consciousness, that is what we really are. - The deepest layer is the objective state or consciousness: how do we know to exist? Even the Greeks had understood that we are not our thoughts and thinking we exist. Consciousness is a process not computable. - After we have the layer of space-time. Time and space are self-referential structures created by the individual and represent the set of structures that define the world. Their characteristic is that there are not quantum, and transcending them you can access to a level of quantum reality. Within this structure the individual feels the energy flowing in particular direction defining the so-called "emotional states". - The energy model of the individual is vectorial, so it has a precise direction and speed. Under this point of view the concept energy can be comparable to the study of a series of flows. These flows can be seen both as waves that as compounds of elements. And for the Heisenberg principle the determination of a dimension, prevent the determination of the other dimensions. So if we experience the flow we will not experience the - The "emotional states" define the basic reasons of acting of the individual, and every emotional state exists in a particular time and place. In other words, the emotional states exists only related to contexts and situations. Emotonal states are in a superposition scheme until the moment in which they are not determined by measuring them in a specific context. Emotional states can also be defined interior activators. Emotional states always exist in digital form, that is, each emotional state is opposed to its opposite. To emotional states we connect the concept of "physiological state of action" linguistically corresponding to the verbs and "environmental indices" linguistically corresponding to the various elements (place, agent etc ...). Environmental indices exist only in function of their localization in a context space and time of their conceptualization. The processes of abstraction and association of neuronal networks within the mind mean that more environmental indexes of second level may be gathered in the top-level or "constructs" and give shape to a class even higher. Among indices, constructs (second-level indicators) and physiological states produces a process called "activation" which leads to activate through the mediation of emotional states, the states of physiological action An experiment with monkeys has shown that in fact: the monkeys orient themselves according to certain environmental indices, some specific objects (eg, a banana) corresponding in humans to a higher level constructs, and defining a specific action (eg climbing) for each spatial location. NLP-3 and non verbal communication DiPLOMA COURSE Quantum thinking is the most modern way to see the mind. High Quality for Excellence. Over the years many people have followed our powerful formations remaining enthusiastic. We use the most modern dynamics of NLP and NLP-3, Hypnotic Communication, and the many techniques taught exclusively by our institute including quantum. The course includes in fact in addition to the techniques of NLP and NLP-3, the update methods Quantum Extreme ®, a revolutionary technology immediate that includes and goes beyond the previous ones, as it starts from a quantum approach, and develops "neural coherence" to increase the speed and brain power and mental energy with its own techniques. This allows faster learning and greater results. In each course theory and practice, intermittent to be able to offer an experiential education engaging and exciting. This first level of T raining of Professional Practitioner of NLP-NLP-3-CNV consists of 2 modules of training: the Professio nal Practitioner of NLP NLP-3 and the S EMINAR COACHING, for an excellent preparation. NLP (Neuro Linguistic Programming) is a technique very diffused today for change and improvement of communication skills and NLP3 is a further development of NLP toward quantum thinking, called NLP 3. NLP3 is based on many experiments and also on integration of not verbal technology. Each technique explained has been practiced and tested hundreds of times with success. It is a very efficient way of thinking and operating going beyond the paths of mainstream NLP. While for example in NLP we have the word “linguistic”, in NLP3 we put much more emphasis on non verbal behaviour as this is a fundamental key for the efficacy of our discipline. While in traditional NLP we have the word “programming”, NLP3 has the goal to pave the way to the “quantum thinking” that it is completely different from programming. In Quantum thinking the mind is free. • If you are an NLPer, this is your occasion of learning something new that will further enhance your efficacy. • If you are new, you will start with the right foot. Most of the most successful teachers and practitioners use, at least unconsciously, many elements written in this book. Personally we find this methodology simpler in application than the old ones. In our centres we train psychotherapists and hypnotherapists, and we practise as well personal therapies, coaching etc… This is as a new discipline based on recent researches and on the successes we have got. Please, throw away all your past mental conditioning and open your mind to new frames of thinking: what you find here is the result of our experience! We explain it with a theoretical framework around the lines of Enneagram, NLP and other techniques as we have found these frameworks highly effective both for us as for our students. Welcome to the new world! This course can be thought as composed of two parts: first part about the non verbal communication, Enneagram and NLP-3 framework (first day and half) and second part as relating more to techniques and hypnotic application. The two parts can be followed independently INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course will give you an international certificate of NLP-3. Investment: Real Value of the course: 1800 euros. If you participate also in the magnetic path you have right to a 30% discount and you will pay 1200 euros. How long 4 days First Day: Non verbal Persuasion Small known keys of Non verbal communication The three main symbols The path of persuasion Enneagram and NLP3 Ideas for working Second day: Professional Uses Time Line and the Enneagram Transforming realities Light and NLP-3 Third day: Creativity and NLP-3 Magnetic anchors Hypnotic keys Quantum Linguistics Fourth day Quantum memory – using NLp-3 to learn faster Hypnotic addenda Hypnotic Coaching Traditionally hypnosis is thought to much without reference with the magnetic paradigm. In this course we will learn hypnosis in a way adapt to practice also magnetic techniques. It is a kind of hypnosis where we stimulate the requirements of the base of the individual, quickly bringing the subject to considerable depth of trance. A course for a quantum leap in personal and professional practice of the subjects taught thanks to the unique techniques of our school. A course in which you associate some hypnotic techniques and quantum concepts of life coach and business coach.