This concept applies even to magnetism, where people entangle at a distance and create distant reactions 5. Equilibrium/Balance is the central position that eliminates dissipative situations 6. Amplification of mental coherence The use of elements and rhythms that amplify the extreme quantum mode. 7. Reducing information: the reduction of the amount of information to a single element 8. Implicated order and explicate order: the two positions 9. Coherence and Decoherence of neuronal information: We need concentration. For a quantum computation can take place it is essential that the information remains consistent and is not lost to the environment 10. Holographic Model: the holographic model is essential to constitute a theory of learning and information retrieval. Approach implies a "top-down". 11. Presence and consciousness and their relationship with the implicate order. Presence can be a pathway to accede to the implicate order starting from the explicate order 12. Phase and Frequency: The information you have the same phase can be combined more easily. The interference patterns apply to this situation The model of reality of Quantum PSI Quantum Psi observes reality by dividing it into layers. In fact, we live in our own subjective universe. We stratify it on the basis of our experiences and this is what is meant by common sense as existence. Quantum Psi assumes that there is also something before everything: consciousness, that is what we really are. - The deepest layer is the objective state or consciousness: how do we know to exist? Even the Greeks had understood that we are not our thoughts and thinking we exist. Consciousness is a process not computable. - After we have the layer of space-time. Time and space are self-referential structures created by the individual and represent the set of structures that define the world. Their characteristic is that there are not quantum, and transcending them you can access to a level of quantum reality. Within this structure the individual feels the energy flowing in particular direction defining the so-called "emotional states". - The energy model of the individual is vectorial, so it has a precise direction and speed. Under this point of view the concept energy can be comparable to the study of a series of flows. These flows can be seen both as waves that as compounds of elements. And for the Heisenberg principle the determination of a dimension, prevent the determination of the other dimensions. So if we experience the flow we will not experience the - The "emotional states" define the basic reasons of acting of the individual, and every emotional state exists in a particular time and place. In other words, the emotional states exists only related to contexts and situations. Emotonal states are in a superposition scheme until the moment in which they are not determined by measuring them in a specific context. Emotional states can also be defined interior activators. Emotional states always exist in digital form, that is, each emotional state is opposed to its opposite. To emotional states we connect the concept of "physiological state of action" linguistically corresponding to the verbs and "environmental indices" linguistically corresponding to the various elements (place, agent etc ...). Environmental indices exist only in function of their localization in a context space and time of their conceptualization. The processes of abstraction and association of neuronal networks within the mind mean that more environmental indexes of second level may be gathered in the top-level or "constructs" and give shape to a class even higher. Among indices, constructs (second-level indicators) and physiological states produces a process called "activation" which leads to activate through the mediation of emotional states, the states of physiological action An experiment with monkeys has shown that in fact: the monkeys orient themselves according to certain environmental indices, some specific objects (eg, a banana) corresponding in humans to a higher level constructs, and defining a specific action (eg climbing) for each spatial location. NLP-3 and non verbal communication DiPLOMA COURSE Quantum thinking is the most modern way to see the mind. High Quality for Excellence. Over the years many people have followed our powerful formations remaining enthusiastic. We use the most modern dynamics of NLP and NLP-3, Hypnotic Communication, and the many techniques taught exclusively by our institute including quantum. The course includes in fact in addition to the techniques of NLP and NLP-3, the update methods Quantum Extreme ®, a revolutionary technology immediate that includes and goes beyond the previous ones, as it starts from a quantum approach, and develops "neural coherence" to increase the speed and brain power and mental energy with its own techniques. This allows faster learning and greater results. In each course theory and practice, intermittent to be able to offer an experiential education engaging and exciting. This first level of T raining of Professional Practitioner of NLP-NLP-3-CNV consists of 2 modules of training: the Professio nal Practitioner of NLP NLP-3 and the S EMINAR COACHING, for an excellent preparation. NLP (Neuro Linguistic Programming) is a technique very diffused today for change and improvement of communication skills and NLP3 is a further development of NLP toward quantum thinking, called NLP 3. NLP3 is based on many experiments and also on integration of not verbal technology. Each technique explained has been practiced and tested hundreds of times with success. It is a very efficient way of thinking and operating going beyond the paths of mainstream NLP. While for example in NLP we have the word “linguistic”, in NLP3 we put much more emphasis on non verbal behaviour as this is a fundamental key for the efficacy of our discipline. While in traditional NLP we have the word “programming”, NLP3 has the goal to pave the way to the “quantum thinking” that it is completely different from programming. In Quantum thinking the mind is free. • If you are an NLPer, this is your occasion of learning something new that will further enhance your efficacy. • If you are new, you will start with the right foot. Most of the most successful teachers and practitioners use, at least unconsciously, many elements written in this book. Personally we find this methodology simpler in application than the old ones. In our centres we train psychotherapists and hypnotherapists, and we practise as well personal therapies, coaching etc… This is as a new discipline based on recent researches and on the successes we have got. Please, throw away all your past mental conditioning and open your mind to new frames of thinking: what you find here is the result of our experience! We explain it with a theoretical framework around the lines of Enneagram, NLP and other techniques as we have found these frameworks highly effective both for us as for our students. Welcome to the new world! This course can be thought as composed of two parts: first part about the non verbal communication, Enneagram and NLP-3 framework (first day and half) and second part as relating more to techniques and hypnotic application. The two parts can be followed independently INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course will give you an international certificate of NLP-3. Investment: Real Value of the course: 1800 euros. If you participate also in the magnetic path you have right to a 30% discount and you will pay 1200 euros. How long 4 days First Day: Non verbal Persuasion Small known keys of Non verbal communication The three main symbols The path of persuasion Enneagram and NLP3 Ideas for working Second day: Professional Uses Time Line and the Enneagram Transforming realities Light and NLP-3 Third day: Creativity and NLP-3 Magnetic anchors Hypnotic keys Quantum Linguistics Fourth day Quantum memory – using NLp-3 to learn faster Hypnotic addenda Hypnotic Coaching Traditionally hypnosis is thought to much without reference with the magnetic paradigm. In this course we will learn hypnosis in a way adapt to practice also magnetic techniques. It is a kind of hypnosis where we stimulate the requirements of the base of the individual, quickly bringing the subject to considerable depth of trance. A course for a quantum leap in personal and professional practice of the subjects taught thanks to the unique techniques of our school. A course in which you associate some hypnotic techniques and quantum concepts of life coach and business coach. This is a complementary course to the magnetic path. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course gives you the certification of Hypnotic Coaching and Advanced Hypnotherapist and Mesmerist. Very useful to start a practice FEE: Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - States of consciousness and phenomena of trance - Anesthesia - Profound analgesia - Coaching Professional Hypnosis regressive Second day: - Examples of inductions (Erickson, oriental, elman) - Regressions dissociated - Quantum methodologies - LuxMind method for setting objectives - Hypnotherapy essential In the future we will also activate the courses: Hypnosis essential and “hypnotic Practice”. Now these arguments are developed inside the Hypnotic coaching above. Quantum Coaching Quantum coaching uses the system of luxmind inside a coaching paradigm to help a person to be herself and develop his/her potentials A quantum coach is a coach that develops creativity in his coachee and solves problems with creativity. Genius and creativity have an origin, and this origin is not in a logical sequence of steps: it is a quantum paradigm. Creativity can not be developed by a machine: The creativity comes normally in seconds, from deep areas of our mind. There is a reason for this: we can not be totally aware of the processes that lead to creativity, otherwise we would block it with our logic. Our Quantum Psi technology applied to coaching is able to effectively treat the behaviors "quantum" that is, the manifestations of the mind resulting from processes that are normally completely unconscious. These are processes that can never become conscious without being distorted. As long as a process is in fact our unconscious the brain work more effectively because it can use the quantum mode, following several lines of reasoning at the same time and creating mental associations. The reasoning is unconscious, however, different from the traditional way: at this point it is necessary to use a quantum paradigm to treat this type of information that appears on a conscious level exclusively expressed by symbols or feelings. Quantum mechanics is a modern discipline and effective to create models and predictions controllable quantum behavior. Can you give us helpful hints on how long elaboration on what to do in case of need, etc.. The quantum process allows us to understand what is behind the genius. The brilliant idea sometimes comes in milliseconds. Our individualistic self, consisting as it does of habits, is seldom capable of fully understanding the infinite range of answers which life might provide. It is therefore necessary to open up one's vision and have recourse to intuition, to a higher sense which is not merely grounded on logic, but is rather based on an array of different evaluations which can only be made unconsciously. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS This course will give you the certificate of PROFESSIONAL COACH Investment Real Value 1190,00 euro, reduced price 799,00 euro. How Long Two days of coaching First day: Goals of the coaching Concentration of Mind How to conduct a coaching Using Luxmind for coaching Secondo day: Quantum coaching Relationship coaching energetic Coaching Natural coaching Group coaching COACHING FOR MAGNETIC SUCCESS -Becoming a Coach that uses his vital energy and creates in the world- Many people strive for success. Magnetism and Quantum thinking can be a road to success. If you were to inquire from many people as to how they have attained success, they would reply to you that “they had been blessed with luck”, and that life’s circumstances had enabled them to give expression to their own inspiration. In actual fact, these persons set out from an inward impulse, from some force which is created out of their subjective interaction with the Universe. Ultimately, the Universe is what they actually give effect to. It is this force, this energy, which confers stability even on their life plan, and which enables them to persevere amid difficulties and through them. Resort to this kind of force is normally escorted by a feeling of satisfaction, and by a resolute desire to enjoy life with regard to every thing it has to offer. Success and happiness are always in front of us. All we need is learning how to stir into motion our vital energy, and how to steer it in the right direction, in order to enable it to yield positive results. The Universe is no more than a response structure. It is commensurately with the way in which we interact with the Universe that whatever we wrest from it emerges into existence.