Now we see how many people, most of them our students have gone on this path. These techniques are not only about psychology. They are also about energy (they are the western path of what in East is kundalini and similar techniques). They also rely on non-verbal communication. Non-verbal communication is very subtle, and the non verbal goes deeper than the verbal They can be useful in therapy, in personal relationships and in every social situation. And also for health, habits, personal development and more… Most of books contain only a piece of this ancient and secret wisdom. The complete system encompasses a lot of exercises, both physical as well as mental. These exercises are rejuvenating and give energy to the practitioner. They help to have a powerful impact and expand the human potentialities And also be the first step of a Path to Presence that we could call “the ultimate path” We propose you these techniques in a practical formation called "Mesmerismus®". Even if the name contains the name "Mesmer", the techniques are more ancient than that of Mesmer. They encompass Fascination, Magnetism and Non-Verbal Techniques It is a secret school and dr. Paret, the director, brings this ancient knowledge in the present world… updating them to the most recent researches and to the quantum level They are very natural. They awake man to himself: there, in himself, he can find maximum power. In order to know when we will have the next courses use this form: http://www.pnl-nlp.org/courses/contactus.php You can also visit the website http://www.hypnotisme.com/hypnotisme/hypnotism-mesmerism.htm and http://www.mesmerismus.net FORMATION AND PATHS The training that the school ISI-CNV offers has a university pattern. These words mean, that to reach the different professional levels you must complete a series of training modules giving each one a certain number of credits. To get the Final Certification you must submit a research at the end of the path. In some paths certification is important, in others it has no meaning as there are paths also for a deep personal development. Our school offers also standard training courses, you can still shape these paths according to your needs, to allow a full path and personalized service. After the course there is even the possibility to become part of our organization, as we are growing and expanding these knowledges. Possible PATHS: MAGNETIC PATH – MAGNETISTA This path is for people aiming at exploring and becoming immediately able in the mesmeric and fascination techniques. It is the most current one. It is the exoteric (it means “for all”) version of the ancient tradition updated to the Quantum level. Courses: Mesmerismus Level 1 – Fascination Course – Presence TRAINER IN MAGNETISM AND MESMERISM (Level 1) Complete the magnetic path. Repeat it at least once - follow the Advanced Seminar (path “hermetic magnetism” or path “NLP-3”) and Train the Trainer days + personal coaching TRAINER IN MAGNETISM AND MESMERISM (Level 2) Complete the magnetic path. Repeat it at least once completely and partly as an assistant. - follow the other path of the Advanced Seminar + personal coaching Non verbal communication and nlp-3 diploma AND TRAINERSHIP Our school specializes in non verbal communication and is the most advanced institute in this field. NLP-3 is mostly based on non verbal communication instead as on the verbal one. It goes far beyond classical NLP. It is a “magical” NLP with different techniques and connects it with the enneagram and what is presented in the magnetic path. Very useful for persuasion and subliminal non verbal communication. In conjunction with the magnetic path it opens up to a level of a certification permitting to teach NLP-3 as well to Practitioner and Master in NLP and NLP-3 QUANTUM COACHING PATH This Path is for people that want to apply these techniques as Coaches. PRESENCE AND HERMETICISM PATH This is a very personal path that on higher levels can only be followed in smaller groups. Follow the Magnetic Path + Magnetic Hermeticism + Atoum Circles (it is an ancient knowledge about presence) CERTIFIED HYPNOTERAPIST + ADVANCED MESMERIST CERTIFICATION This course is for people wanting to start a practice starting from scratch and also for people already with experience in hypnotherapy that want to learn some traditional modalities that could be used in conjunction with magnetism and fascination. It encompasses both the magnetic path, the advanced course (NLP-3 and Non Verbal Communication Diploma) and a module of traditional hypnosis for the magnetic path, where certain techniques of traditional hypnosis are explained magnetic MASSAGE CERTIFICATION Follow the magnetic path + personal coaching. master trainer – mentor IN MESMERISM Follow all courses of the school. Methodologies We offer an organized curriculum for studies in the most powerful techniques of Magnetism, NLP-3, Mesmerismus © and Quantum Technologies and Coaching. The programs are open to professionals and people seeking a higher education in these matters. We naturally recognize that the needs of professionals are different from those of adolescents and young adults - mature learners have a wealth of knowledge and skills which adolescents and young adults often lack. Further, we recognize that the career and family responsibilities of mature learners are often incompatible with the demands of years of on-campus, classroom attendance. The learner earns credit through intensive courses on the field and then married with independent off-campus study evaluated during our intensive seminars. We also use modern information modalities such as; audio and video taped lectures, computer tutorials, WWW site information links that are given to our students, mentor-guided reading programs and supervised-held study via skype. Finally we have some ritual moments in our courses where the student is introduced to these techniques in the traditional way. Magnetism/Fascination updated to quantum techniques Welcome to our formation, your door to unleash the true power of your mind and yourself. Our discipline is a modern and powerful tool to create powerful and practical results. Our Quantum Magnetism technology is also suitable for deep processing, in all the domains of life. It originates from the convergence of ancient traditions and techniques in which we were initiated, passed down to us during our research and of which we are the last exponents, and this paradigm with which we are able to give expansion and scientific foundation paradigms applied to the quantum mind, which is the most evolved exists in the modern world to treat our relationship with the world. And 'in fact the discipline's most successful predictions to be controlled in a world where we know that the exceptions are always a possibility. And the language and life are systems where the exceptions are the norm. from our many years of practical experience in psychology and techniques of mind from the experience of our seminars and courses, where we have experienced countless moments of discussion and experimentation of the techniques described. from the theoretical competence being responsible for what has been the most innovative school in Italy and France over the last ten years. from measurements taken with various equipment with which we have verified many of the techniques that we teach. Deep concepts for the development of man Our system is extremely innovative and has not only external applications, improving your mental power. It is also a way of human growth. A basic concept is the man in the universe and his subjective reality. It starts from the consideration that all the psychological disciplines seek to develop human potential, but no one questions the goal of achieving greater skills and abilities, and how to integrate these elements with awareness. Only accessing subjectively and really the complete structure of man you can figure out how to access its potential. This has consequence: In an organization it becomes clear how every performance is linked to the "human factor" and the "sense" that people feels in the organization. Our system is also the key to the realization of a true "Quantum Coaching" At therapeutic levels, we realize that beyond the various techniques there is a person with which we operate and resonate and the relationship should take this into account, as well as the fact that we are a person and therefore we influence the results On a personal level, we open up to the two ways of human development: The Two Fundamental ways for the Development of the Person There are two avenues of growth for the human being: path A and path B - The direct path (path A) is the “heroic” path. For those who want to go directly to the deepest of themselves, to get the most high state of consciousness that a human being can live. - The indirect path (path B) also called “magical” path, is for people who do not have the concentration and the energy to do so because they are too distracted by daily life and therefore they want to achieve some goals (eg, success, health, money, relationships) before to have enough energy to follow the path A. We accept the fact that each has his own way of seeing the world. It is a technique of freedom. Path B of Human Development and Quantum Technologies If implemented wisely, following path B is positive and acts as a first useful step allowing a person to develop to its fullest potential and resources. This brochure will deal essentially with path B, as we do not believe that there are at this time a sufficient number of people able to deal directly via A. In addition, those who are not able to get results in life it is probable that they are in such a situation because they don’t have all of their resources. Therefore it is very unlikely they will have the energy required to follow the path A. But there is another even more important reason. In today’s world, we assist to the fact that there is a continuous search for way B procedures forgetting the man who practices them. Only a few techniques work in the best direction for the operator. While allowing you to achieve results in the short, or even in the medium term if we have in the mind a direction of development that is aligned only with contingent elements, instead that with the real and profound human nature, the risk of psychosomatic problems, or to move away from the center more and more is too high. Our method unlike any previous technology focuses on the doer rather than on the done. We think it therefore important to indicate a feasible and positive path. Three INNER STEPS FOR REAL development In our view, learning these techniques must be part of a path also and transformation of the human being. It is true that persuasion and healing abilities will be greatly enhanced, and it is also true that in our discipline a key point is the operator that must become a true Master. Traditionally, from the most ancient times there were three steps a person must do to get to the top and really be a Master: Step 1 – getting rid of unnecessary thoughts and needs. The level 1 is preliminary and can be done with various methods. It consists in the awareness of the existence of the basis states and in overcoming all the obstacles that may exist in order to begin to access to level 2. In practice, the participant solves all its states of stress baseline. Ordinary man’s mind is full of a cloud of thinking and of want. The first step needs a person to create a clear mind - the ancient alchemists called it making the salt crystal clear. It means a mind no more cluttered by the encrusting of habits and a different relationship with the body where we live in the body. Step 2 – grasping the first level quantum view of reality. At level 2 the participant expands the basics and become better able to master the external activators to expand its awareness. He experiences the natural series basis of some deep states of consciousness and can already start with the first steps of growth thereafter. Such states are important as well as for individual development, and also are of great importance in the therapy and are the basis of the model of long-term permanent change. In this level we understand that we are part of the same universe we are observing. This awareness must be a daily awareness, not just a glimpse. Step 3 – enhancing the inner fire. At level 3, the participant is now ready to learn the techniques directed towards the center of himself, in a direction that is the complete transformation of the individual. This is climbing the ladder of personal development beyond even the meaning of these words. We go in touch with a superior state of reality and consciousness. The ancient called this step enhancing the sulphur, as sulphur contains in itself the root of fire. The techniques of this level cannot be exposed to words as they require the knowledge of the earlier steps to be understood. These three steps and their succession comes from a centuries old tradition, whose goal is bringing back man to himself. ACADEMIC MASTER RESEARCH PROJECT Our work will have a bigger value, if done in contact with the reality and part of a bigger project. The trainee can realize and have all his studies become a recognized part of a Personal Master Research and Development Project. People wanting to do the Master Research Project are the people that in the future will most spread these techniques. CAIRN is an academic consortium and ISI-CNV is part of it. It will recognize credits to this project and give a doctorate or a recognition. This doctorate is based in Nepal. Cairn has a list of about 30 professors that can try to endorse it in different countries, but we cannot guarantee it always. So please take this certificate more as an endorsement of your work if your country doesn’t recognize it.