Very useful for persuasion and subliminal non verbal communication. In conjunction with the magnetic path opens up to a kind a certification permitting to teach NLP-3 as well to Practitioner and Master in NLP and NLP-3 QUANTUM COACHING PATH This Path is for people that want to apply these techniques as Coaches. PRESENCE AND HERMETICISM PATH This is a very personal path that on higher levels can only be followed in smaller groups. Follow the Magnetic Path + Magnetic Hermeticism + Atoum Circles (it is an ancient knowledge about presence) CERTIFIED HYPNOTERAPIST + ADVANCED MESMERIST CERTIFICATION This course is for people wanting to start a practice starting from scratch and alsop for people already with experience in hypnotherapy that want to learn some traditional modalities he could use in conjunction with magnetism and fascination. It encompasses both the magnetic path, the advanced course (NLP-3 and Non Verbal Communication Diploma) and a module of traditional hypnosis for the magnetic path, where certain techniques of traditional hypnosis are explained magnetic MASSAGE CERTIFICATION Follow the magnetic path + personal coaching. master trainer – mentor IN MESMERISM Follow all courses of the school. Methodologies We offer an organized curriculum for studies in the most powerful techniques of Magnetism, Nlp-3, Mesmerismus © and Quantum Technologies and coaching. The programs are open to professionals and peolpe seeking a higher education in these matters.We naturally recognize that the needs of professionals are different from those of adolescents and young adults - mature learners have a wealth of knowledge and skills which adolescents and young adults often lack. Further, we recognize that the career and family responsibilities of mature learners are often incompatible with the demands of years of on-campus, classroom attendance. The learner earns credit through intensive courses on the field married with independent off-campus study evaluated during our intensive seminars. We use also modern information modalities such as audio and video taped lectures, computer tutorials, WWW site information links that are given to our students, mentor-guided reading programs and supervised-held study via skype. Finally we have some ritual moments in our courses where the student is introduced to these techniques in the traditional way. Magnetism/Fascination updated to quantum techniques Welcome to our formation, your door to unleash the true power of your mind and yourself. our discipline is a modern and powerful tool to create powerful and practical results. Our Quantum Magnetism technology is also suitable for deep processing, in all the domains of life. It originates from the convergence of ancient traditions and techniques in which we were initiated, passed down to us during our research and of which we are the last exponents, and this paradigm with which we are able to give expansion and scientific foundation paradigms applied to the quantum mind, which is the most evolved exists in the modern world to treat our relationship with the world. And 'in fact the discipline's most successful predictions to be controlled in a world where we know that the exceptions are always a possibility. And the language and life are systems where the exceptions are the norm. from our many years of practical experience in psychology and techniques of mind from the experience of our seminars and courses, where we have experienced countless moments of discussion and experimentation of the techniques described. from the theoretical competence being responsible for what has been the most innovative school in Italy over the last ten years. from measurements taken with various equipments with which we have verified many of the techniques that we teach Deep concepts for the development of man Our system is extremely innovative and has not only external applications, improving your mental power. It is also a way of human growth. A basic concept is the man in the universe and his subjective reality. It starts from the consideration that all the psychological disciplines seek to develop human potential, but no one questions the goal of achieving greater skills and abilities, and how to integrate these elements with awareness. Only accessing subjectively and really the complete structure of man you can figure out how to access its potential. This has consequences: In an organization it becomes clear how every performance is linked to the "human factor" and the "sense" that people feels in the organization. Our system is also the key to the realization of a true "Quantum Coaching" At therapeutic levels, we realize that beyond the various techniques there is a person with which we operate and resonate and the relationship should take this into account, as well as the fact that we are a person and therefore we influence the results On a personal level, we open up to the two ways of human development: The Two Fundamental ways for the Development of the Person There are two avenues of growth for the human being: path A and path B - The direct path (path A) is the “heroic” path. For those who want to go directly to the deepest of themselves, to get the most high state of consciousness that a human being can live. - The indirect path (path B) also called “magical” path, is for people who do not have the concentration and the energy to do so because they are too distracted by daily life and therefore they want to achieve some goals (eg, success, health, money, relationships) before to have enough energy to follow the path A. We accept the fact that each has his own way of seeing the world. It is a technique of freedom. Path B of Human Development and Quantum Technologies If implemented wisely, following path B is positive and act as a first useful step allowing a person to develop to its fullest potential and resources. This brochure will deal essentially with path B, as we do not believe that there are at this time a sufficient number of people able to deal directly via A. In addition, those who are not able to get results in life is probable that are in such a situation because they don’t have all of their resources. Therefore it is very unlikely they will have the energy required to follow the path A. But there is another even more important reason. In today world we assist tio the fact that there is a continouis search for way B procedures forgetting the man who practices them. Only few techniques work in the best direction for the operator .. While allowing you to achieve results in the short, or even in the medium term if we have in the mind of a direction of development that is aligned only with contingent elements, instead that with the real and profound human nature, the risk of psychosomatic problems, or to move away from center more and more is too high. Our method unlike any previous technology focuses on the doer rather than on the done. We think therefore important to indicate a feasible and positive path. Three INNER STEPS FOR REAL development In our view, learning these techniques must be part of a path also a transformation of the human being. It is true that persuasion and healing habilities will be greatly enhanced, and it is also true that in our discipline a key point is the operator that must become a true Master. Traditionally, from the most ancient times there were three steps a person must do to get to the top and really be a Master: Step 1 – getting rid of unnecessary thoughts and needs. The level 1 is preliminary and can be done with various methods. It consists in the awareness of the existence of the basis states and in overcoming all the obstacles that may exist in order to begin to access to level 2. In practice, the participant solves all its states of stress baseline. Ordinary man’s mind is full of a cloud of thinking and of want. First step needs a person create a clear mind - the ancient alchemists called it making the salt cristal clear. It means a mind no more cluttered by the encrusting of habits and a different relationship with the body where we live in the body. Step 2 – grasping the first level quantum view of reality. At level 2 the participant expands the basics and become better able to master the external activators to expand its awareness. He experiences the natural series basis of some deep states of consciousness and can already start with the first steps of growth thereafter. Such states are important as well as for individual development, and also are of great importance in the therapy and are the basis of the model of long-term change permanent. In this level we understand that we are part of the same universe we are observing. This awareness must be a daily awareness, not just a glimpse. Step 3 – enhancing the inner fire. At level three, the participant is now ready to learn the techniques directed towards the center of himself, in a direction that is the complete transformation of the individual. This is climbing the ladder of personal development beyond even the meaning of these words. We go in touch with a superior state of reality and consciousness. The ancient called this step enhancing the sulphur, as sulphur contains in itself the root of fire. The techniques of this level cannot be exposed to words as they require the knowledge of the earlier steps to be understood. These three steps and their succession comes from a centuries old tradition, whose goal is bringing back man to himself. ACADEMIC MASTER RESEARCH PROJECT Our work will have a bigger value, if done in contact with the reality and part of a bigger project. The trainee can realize and have all his studies become a recognized part of a Personal Master Research and Development Project. People wanting to do the Master Research Project are the people that in the future will most spread these techniques. CAIRN is an academic consortium and ISI-CNV is part of it. It will recognize credits to this project and give a doctorate or a recognition. This doctorate is based in Nepal. Cairn has a list of about 30 professors that can try to endorse it in different countries, but we cannot guarantee it always. So please take this certificate more as an endorsement of your work if your country doesn’t recognize it. INTERNATIONAL NETWORK FOR KNOWLEDGE EURO -ASIAN ACADEMIC NETWORK RESEARCH IN Higher Practical Mental Sciences Neurosciences - Tibetan Mysticism - Scientific Hypnosis - Western and Oriental Esoteric Paths of Power and Therapy We are the only ones with an international curriculum aimed at researchers and students with the purpose of achieving the highest levels and we are open to admit other institutes or school providing similar ojectives. Our units are based in Europe and Asia (Nepal). Based on an International Academic Euroasiatic Network for research Opening a chapter in your country A person working seriously can open a branch/chapter in his country and get endorsement by all structures in which we are active. It can realize: A research chapter An operative chapter Or both A research chapter contribute to the research work of the school. It can have even recognition from CAIRN or the school An operative branch organizes courses and participates in the activities of the institute To be head of a chapter a person must be a Mentor. A mentor is a person with specific qualities and experiences in the filed in which he is operating, and know profoundly the techniques. Mentor was the name of the person to which Ulisses gave his son Telemacus before one of his long travels. But Mentori s also the form that the goddes Athena takes in various moments of the Odissey (Athena is Minerva in latin, goddess of intelligence but also eponim of wisdom). Expanding our magnetic chain About the teaching of magnetism contained in our magnetic path, creating a branch or a chapter permits also to expand the “magnetic chain”. In quantum terms the “magnetic chain” is an entanglement between the members of a group. In fact we observe certain phenomena when more persons work together on some issue. These effects have been also studied and labeled as “morphic field”: "The morphic fields include all kinds of organizing fields...: The organizing fields of animal and human behaviour, of social and cultural systems, and of mental activity can all be regarded as morphic fields which contain an inherent memory." According to the essential uses, customs and traditions of Magnetism and most particular Hermetic orders, which have been scrupulously preserved by our lineage, a recognized branch has the power to make and develop teaching about magnetism, according to the lineages that we preserve and all groups that continue them are inside the so called "magnetic chain" and are to be considered as regular and develop this “inner memory”. There are some specific points that are set for a group to be considered as regular in working with magnetism: 1 - not taking political or religious dogmatic point of view 2 - preserve and study the tradition respecting it and staying obviously in the lineage 3 - develop the work of presence 4 - divulge with respect to the discipline and of the other fellows practitioners 5 - adhere to the vaster group Mesmerismus ® -Magnetic Path First step of Magnetic Path Secrets of magnetic inductions The word Mesmerismus ® means connecting the forces of nature to his work and to his influence. Having these forces available, in creating the plan of his life, everyone can aim for the top. In life with others: Personal Magnetism leads to develop personal and professional success, and on another level to understand and act on the mechanisms of attraction and relationships. Well-being: the techniques created according to the model of Mesmerismus ® invigorate and also lead to personal well being. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS The course shall issue the certificate of international magnetist Emeritus in combination with the course of Mesmerismus base. FEE: Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - Exercises and experiences magnetic base - Symbols and magnetism - First Protocol "conscience" - Exercises for the rapid development of magnetic force and vitality - Various daily practices of magnetism and magnetism experimental - Second Protocol "energy" - M taste and magnetic ipnogeno Second day : - Exercises rejuvenation - Theories of Bersek and strength development - The two cerebral hemispheres and how to use their strength - Personal magnetism in life - Magnetism Remote - Third Protocol "connection" - Develop the power of voice - Develop the power of the gaze - The two polarities and how to develop - Fourth Protocol "concentration" - Various demonstrations FASCINATION – magnetic path second step of magnetic path Secrets of fascination With these techniques you can learn how to influence others and yourself. Learning FASCINATION means learning the hidden keys of the GAZE. Technically we define “fascination” a particular mental state, similar to what occurs when we are involved from a movie or something that attracts our attention. The analysis of the phenomena of fascination involves the use of multiple brain areas: • The part of the brain that interprets what he sees, that connect the cerebral cortex • The part of the brain that live emotions that connect to the limbic system • And the deepest part of ourselves, our reptilian brain, which provides the basis of the process of fascination, blocking our attention The process is triadic: recognition and observation of an item => emotional charge => fascination and capture attention. The STATE OF FASCINATION is different from the classic trance. Thanks to the fascination of the events you can get hypnotic effects without any possible form of suggestion, and no one can attribute this result to the expectation of the same. Fascination is a specific hypnotic stat. One of the most amazing and hypnotic forms at the same time one of the most consistent in the results that you can get. The subject has some physical signs: softening of the jaw muscles, eyes open with little or no beat, a general dumbing down. In this state, the focus is and the suggestions of the hypnotist are followed instantly. Frequently the person's eyes fascinated shall set as attached on the eyes of the charmer and he does not stand out more.