• If you are new, you will start with the right foot. Most of the most successful teachers and practitioners use, at least unconsciously, many elements written in this book. Personally we find this methodology simpler in application than the old ones. In our centres we train psychotherapists and hypnotherapists, and we practice as well personal therapies, coaching etc… This is as a new discipline based on recent researches and on the successes we have got. Please, throw away all your past mental conditioning and open your mind to new frames of thinking: what you find here is the result of our experience! We explain it with a theoretical framework around the lines of Enneagram, NLP and other techniques as we have found these frameworks highly effective both for us as for our students. Welcome to the new world! This course can be thought as composed of two parts: first part about the non verbal communication, Enneagram and NLP-3 framework (first day and half) and second part as relating more to techniques and hypnotic application. The two parts can be followed independently INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course will give you an international certificate of NLP-3. Investment: Real Value of the course: 1800 euros. If you participate also in the magnetic path you have right to a 30% discount and you will pay 1200 euros. How long 4 days First day: Non verbal Persuasion Small known keys of Non verbal communication The three main symbols The path of persuasion Enneagram and NLP3 Ideas for working Second day: Professional Uses Time Line and the Enneagram Transforming realities Light and NLP-3 Third day: Creativity and NLP-3 Magnetic anchors Hypnotic keys Quantum Linguistics Fourth day Quantum memory – using NLP-3 to learn faster Hypnotic addenda Hypnotic Coaching Traditionally hypnosis is often thought to much without reference with the magnetic paradigm. In this course we will learn hypnosis in a way adapt to practice also magnetic techniques. It is a kind of hypnosis where we stimulate the requirements of the base of the individual, quickly bringing the subject to considerable depth of trance. A course for a quantum leap in personal and professional practice of the subjects taught thanks to the unique techniques of our school. A course in which you associate some hypnotic techniques and quantum concepts of life coach and business coach. This is a complementary course to the magnetic path. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course gives you the certification of Hypnotic Coaching and Advanced Hypnotherapist and Mesmerist. Very useful to start a practice FEE: Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - States of consciousness and phenomena of trance - Anesthesia - Profound analgesia - Coaching Professional Hypnosis regressive Second day: - Examples of inductions (Erickson, oriental, elman) - Regressions dissociated - Quantum methodologies - LuxMind method for setting objectives - Hypnotherapy essential In the future we will also activate the courses: Hypnosis essential and “hypnotic Practice”. Now these arguments are developed inside the Hypnotic coaching above. Quantum Coaching Quantum coaching uses the system of luxmind inside a coaching paradigm to help a person to be him/herself and develop his/her potentials A quantum coach is a coach that develops creativity in his coachee and solves problems with creativity. Genius and creativity have an origin, and this origin is not in a logical sequence of steps: it is a quantum paradigm. Creativity can not be developed by a machine: The creativity comes normally in seconds, from deep areas of our mind. There is a reason for this: we can not be totally aware of the processes that lead to creativity, otherwise we would block it with our logic. Our Quantum Psi technology applied to coaching is able to effectively treat the behaviors "quantum" that is, the manifestations of the mind resulting from processes that are normally completely unconscious. These are processes that can never become conscious without being distorted. As long as a process is in fact our unconscious the brain work more effectively because it can use the quantum mode, following several lines of reasoning at the same time and creating mental associations. The reasoning is unconscious, however, different from the traditional way: at this point it is necessary to use a quantum paradigm to treat this type of information that appears on a conscious level exclusively expressed by symbols or feelings. Quantum mechanics is a modern discipline and effective to create models and predictions controllable quantum behavior. Can you give us helpful hints on how long elaboration on what to do in case of need, etc.. The quantum process allows us to understand what is behind the genius. The brilliant idea sometimes comes in milliseconds. Our individualistic self, consisting as it does of habits, is seldom capable of fully understanding the infinite range of answers which life might provide. It is therefore necessary to open up one's vision and have recourse to intuition, to a higher sense in which is not merely grounded on logic, but is rather based on an array of different evaluations which can only be made unconsciously. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS This course will give you the certificate of PROFESSIONAL COACH Investment Real Value 1190,00 euro, reduced price 799,00 euro. How Long Two days of coaching First day: Goals of the coaching Concentration of Mind How to conduct a coaching Using Luxmind for coaching Secondo day: Quantum coaching Relationship coaching Energetic Coaching Natural coaching Group coaching COACHING FOR MAGNETIC SUCCESS -Becoming a Coach that uses his vital energy and creates in the world- Many people strive for success. Magnetism and Quantum thinking can be a road to success. If you were to enquire from many people as to how they have attained success, they would reply to you that “they had been blessed with luck”, and that life’s circumstances had enabled them to give expression to their own inspiration. In actual fact, these persons set out from an inward impulse, from some force which is created out of their subjective interaction with the Universe. Ultimately, the Universe is what they actually give effect to. It is this force, this energy, which confers stability even on their life plan, and which enables them to persevere amid difficulties and through them. Resort to this kind of force is normally escorted by a feeling of satisfaction, and by a resolute desire to enjoy life with regard to every thing it has to offer. Success and happiness are always in front of us. All we need is learning how to stir into motion our vital energy, and how to steer it in the right direction, in order to enable it to yield positive results. The Universe is no more than a response structure. It is commensurately with the way in which we interact with the Universe that whatever we wrest from it emerges into existence. We are able therefore to extract results, provided we adopt the right posture. Creating and Steering energy. The vital energy represents the second element in the under-stated fundamental dyad, which represents the essential key to achieve any thing: The Fundamental dyad 1 – Consciousness of what we do in the now and over time 2 –Vital Energy The vital energy, which is the foundation that underpins true personal magnetism, is chiefly physical in nature. It consists in vitality. Usually, however, we are devoid of true consciousness of it. When that is the case, which is the normal scenario, vital energy is merely used and consumed away in the effort of preserving our habits. Many people’s reactions are piloted by a tiny little ego which is capricious and wasteful in setting out to attain its objectives. Such objectives accordingly fritter away this vital energy in the undertaking of aimless actions. A parallel exists between what we do with mental energy and what we do with the gifts and possibilities life offers us, such as relationships and our money. Avoiding dispersions of mental energy and channelling it in the right direction represent human engagements which need to be carried out in order to increase energy, and thereby expand the range of our active doing. If we concentrate, the greater amplitude of mental power which is generated by concentration has the effect of us developing power in reality and naturally transcending habits. When that stage is reached, we will then be capable of enjoying the opportunities life supplies us with. The aim of a coach is to develop the skills and potential of the coachee. The Coach uses all the techniques at his knowledge to get maximum results, developing a personal relationship with the coachee. Just as every coach strives to be the best and to go beyond the existing models aiming exclusively to the result to be a good coach is essential to develop their own personal and unique model of coaching, and also develop a range of skills such as confidence in themselves and safety. This course teaches you a variety of psychophysical strategies for success that fit in a wider frame. This powerful model also includes the sale of NLP-3 and concepts of Quantum Psi applied to the sale and the coaching. This quantum model is in fact particularly effective in complex situations characterized by a high number of variables. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS The course shall issue the certificate of international MASTER COACH. FEE: Real value of the course 1190,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops Practical instructions on how to use the secret energy of the mind and fascination in order to attain success –Practical applications aimed at improving one’s personal charm, life, profession, relationships, and financial activities First day: - Coaching techniques - Business and Leadership - Techniques of Hypnoselling - Enneagram applied to business - The system LuxMind ® - Quantum Psi ® - Natural coach Second day: - Effective coaching - Psychological concepts to the business and marketing - Coaching for sale - Mental Skills - Hypnotic communication for business - Coach Manager Hypno-Selling and Gaze for everyday uses - Charisma enhancement In this age of ours, man, lost in a frantic quest for material objects and opportunities, turns oblivious to the fact that the true key to power is found inside his own self. The role played by the expression “Personal Magnetism” in ordinary parlance is to designate that kind of powerful fascination which some individuals exercise over fellow human beings. Without seemingly doing anything special, in fact, this class of individuals arouse sympathy, interest and consideration. Their presence is welcomed, and one almost feels impelled to win over their friendship and earn their good esteem. Personal influence is an inherent property of man’s indigenous nature. The eye represents one of the essential elements of such connatural human property. If, upon surveying the history of past epochs, we were to search for the reasons behind the success achieved by famous men from every age or nation, we would quickly reach the realization that this success always resulted from their ability to magnetically "fascinate" their addressees. The mere action of looking at someone, without anything further, is charged with meaning. It surely conveys a meaning of interest in such person. In truth, we look more often at the people who interest us or who are to our liking than at the others. Provided the eye is appositely trained, its power will be amplified. Although each person has in himself the peculiar psychological and mental elements which enable him to impact on his fellow human beings, not every one makes use of such elements to the same degree. We use the term "persuasive fascination" to denote the practical application of fascination within the context of daily communication. The most glaring and typical manifestation of “personal power" consists in the art of persuading 1. The person who holds the keys to that art is readily believed in respect of whatever he says, and evinces a form of hegemony over his fellow human beings. In this course we will deal with how to use gaze and non verbal communication to enhance your effectiveness and Charisma. We will also work with the “hypno-selling” system, a method based on words and other elements as NLP-3 aimed at giving you more capacity of persuading other people. DURATION (2 days) The spirit of selling Working for helping the client solving a problem How to use effectively your non verbal communication Enneagram and NLP-3 for selling Basic of hypno-selling Non verbal commands Magnetism and relationships Real Hypno-Mentalism and Hypno-Magnetism – silent commands and mental control Real Original Hypno-mentalism: the capability to use trance states to alter the reality a person perceive and have her react in an unconscious way. We use only non verbal communication, few words and obviously the mind. Ancient magnetists realized some very spectacular feats: “The next experiment was equally successful. The other girl, whom Mr. A. de Constant had also under his influence, was placed while in a waking state with her back to the wall. Mr. de Constant then took me aside, and asked me which part of the subject he should paralyze by his silent will? I wrote down, “La jambe gauche.” He then, standing about two yards from the girl, made an effort of will, after which he told the girl to move about: upon which she moved every limb except her left leg, which had become perfectly rigid. In the same way the girl’s right leg, and then one of her arms, were paralyzed. But the most curious thing was when I desired that the girl’s head might become motionless. It was literally stuck to the wall by the silent will of the Mesmeriser. Her arms, her legs could move, but not her head; so that she could only walk forward as far as the attachment by her head would permit. On forcibly separating her head from the wall, it went back with a stiffness which seemed to me inimitable by voluntary muscular action.” In our courses we explain these feats. In the future we will even activate a complete course of study in these phenomena. Actually some of these teaching are in the course “train the trainers” It is a discipline that creates effects that are impressive many times not only for the subject but even for the experimenter. In real hypno-mentalism we can have contact mind reading, telepathic effects based on the “psychic atmosphere” we create with the subject, reading people based on physiognomy and other elements, and having the subject reaching hypnotically to the non verbal orders of the operator. The subject has always the eyes open and no trance or post hypnotic suggestion is used. Uses in real life of these skills are in: better understanding people at deeper levels than the verbal one, communicating with the unconscious mind, having reaction to non verbal symbols and intentions. Hypno-magnetism: enhancing magnetic effects with hypnotic elements.