INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ISI CNV dr. Marco Paret International Schools - Academic Consortium Ecoles Internationales - Consortium Académique ISI-CNV Université Européenne llp FACULTE’ LIBRE DE PNL France CAIRN ACADEMIC CONSORTIUM Belgium – France – Italy - UK – Nepal – India - Canada GENERAL STUDY PLAN 2012 INDEX international Programs 1 Isi Cnv Dr. Marco Paret 1 Index 3 Formation And Paths 5 Methodologies 6 Magnetism/Fascination Updated To Quantum Techniques 7 Deep Concepts For The Development Of Man 7 Path B Of Human Development And Quantum Technologies 8 Three Inner Steps For Real Development 9 Academic Master Research Project 10 International Network For Knowledge 10 Opening A Chapter In Your Country 10 Mesmerismus ® -Magnetic Path 12 First Step Of Magnetic Path 12 Fascination – Magnetic Path 14 Second Step Of Magnetic Path 14 Quantum Presence– Master In Quantum Physiology –Magnetic Path 16 Third Step Of The Magnetic Path 16 Luxmind And Quantum Psi Technologies 19 -A New Technology For The Mind- 19 Techniques And Concepts - A Small Glossary 19 Nlp-3 And Non Verbal Communication Diploma Course 22 Hypnotic Coaching 24 Quantum Coaching 25 Coaching For Magnetic Success 27 -Becoming A Coach That Uses His Vital Energy And Creates In The World- 27 Hypno-Selling And Gaze For Everyday Uses - Charisma Enhancement 29 Real Hypno-Mentalism And Hypno-Magnetism – Silent Commands And Mental Control 31 Hermetic Magnetism – Accessing The Secret Energy Of The Mind 33 Train The Trainers 34 Informations On Our Lineages 37 Some Sites 43 WELCOME We welcome you to this brochure that is part of an important cultural and research project. Our aim is to help the knowledge of the old tradition of magnetic hypnotism in which we were initiated. We have updated them to the most modern quantum technologies. When we began this project we were alone. Now we see how many people, mosto of them our students have gone on this path. These techniques are not only about psychology. They are also about energy (they are the western path of what in East is kundalini and similar techniques). They rely also on non verbal communication. Non verbal communication is very subtle, and the non verbal go deeper than the verbal They can be useful in therapy, in personal relationships and in every social situation. And also for health, habits, personal development and more… Most of books contain only a piece of this ancient and secret wisdom The complete system encompass a lot of exercises, both physical as mental. These exercises are rejuvenating and give energy to the practitioner. They help to have a powerful impact and expand the human potentialities And also be the first step of a Path to Presence that we could call “the ultimate path” We propose you these techniques in a practical formation called "Mesmerismus®". Even if the name contain the name "Mesmer", the techniques are more ancient as them of Mesmer. They encompass Fascination, Magnetism and non verbal techniques It is a secret school and dr. Paret, the director, bring this ancient knowledge in the present world… updating them to the most recent researches and to the quantum level They are very natural. They awake man to himself: there, in himself, he can find maximum power. In order to know when we will have the next courses use this form: http://www.pnl-nlp.org/courses/contactus.php You can also visit the website http://www.hypnotisme.com/hypnotisme/hypnotism-mesmerism.htm and http://www.mesmerismus.net FORMATION AND PATHS The training that the school ISI-CNV offers has an university pattern. This words mean that to reach the different professional levels you must complete a series of training modules giving each one a certain number of credits. To get the Final Certification you must submit a research at the end of the path. In some paths certification is important, in others has no meaning as there are path also for a deep personal development. Our school offers also standard training courses, you can still shape these paths according to your needs, to allow a full path and personalized service. After the course there is even the possibility to become part of our organization, as we are growing and expanding these knowledges. Possible PATHS: MAGNETIC PATH – MAGNETISTA This path is for people aiming at exploring and becoming immediately able in the mesmeric and fascination techniques. It is the most current one. It is the exoteric (it means “for all”) version of the ancient tradition updated to the Quantum level. Courses: Mesmerismus Level 1 – Fascination Course – Presence TRAINER IN MAGNETISM AND MESMERISM (Level 1) Complete the magnetic path. Repeat it at least once - follow the Advanced Seminar (path “hermetic magnetism” or path “NLP-3”) and Train the Trainer days + personal coaching TRAINER IN MAGNETISM AND MESMERISM (Level 2) Complete the magnetic path. Repeat it at least once completely and partly as an assistant. - follow the other path of the Advanced Seminar + personal coaching Non verbal communication and nlp-3 diploma AND TRAINERSHIP Our school specializes in non verbal communication and is the most advanced institute in this field. NLP-3 is mostly based on non verbal communication instead as on the verbal one. It goes far beyond classical NLP. It is a “magical” NLP with different techniques and connects it with the enneagram and what is presented in the magnetic path. Very useful for persuasion and subliminal non verbal communication. In conjunction with the magnetic path opens up to a kind a certification permitting to teach NLP-3 as well to Practitioner and Master in NLP and NLP-3 QUANTUM COACHING PATH This Path is for people that want to apply these techniques as Coaches. PRESENCE AND HERMETICISM PATH This is a very personal path that on higher levels can only be followed in smaller groups. Follow the Magnetic Path + Magnetic Hermeticism + Atoum Circles (it is an ancient knowledge about presence) CERTIFIED HYPNOTERAPIST + ADVANCED MESMERIST CERTIFICATION This course is for people wanting to start a practice starting from scratch and alsop for people already with experience in hypnotherapy that want to learn some traditional modalities he could use in conjunction with magnetism and fascination. It encompasses both the magnetic path, the advanced course (NLP-3 and Non Verbal Communication Diploma) and a module of traditional hypnosis for the magnetic path, where certain techniques of traditional hypnosis are explained magnetic MASSAGE CERTIFICATION Follow the magnetic path + personal coaching. master trainer – mentor IN MESMERISM Follow all courses of the school. Methodologies We offer an organized curriculum for studies in the most powerful techniques of Magnetism, Nlp-3, Mesmerismus © and Quantum Technologies and coaching. The programs are open to professionals and peolpe seeking a higher education in these matters.We naturally recognize that the needs of professionals are different from those of adolescents and young adults - mature learners have a wealth of knowledge and skills which adolescents and young adults often lack. Further, we recognize that the career and family responsibilities of mature learners are often incompatible with the demands of years of on-campus, classroom attendance. The learner earns credit through intensive courses on the field married with independent off-campus study evaluated during our intensive seminars. We use also modern information modalities such as audio and video taped lectures, computer tutorials, WWW site information links that are given to our students, mentor-guided reading programs and supervised-held study via skype. Finally we have some ritual moments in our courses where the student is introduced to these techniques in the traditional way. Magnetism/Fascination updated to quantum techniques Welcome to our formation, your door to unleash the true power of your mind and yourself. our discipline is a modern and powerful tool to create powerful and practical results. Our Quantum Magnetism technology is also suitable for deep processing, in all the domains of life. It originates from the convergence of ancient traditions and techniques in which we were initiated, passed down to us during our research and of which we are the last exponents, and this paradigm with which we are able to give expansion and scientific foundation paradigms applied to the quantum mind, which is the most evolved exists in the modern world to treat our relationship with the world. And 'in fact the discipline's most successful predictions to be controlled in a world where we know that the exceptions are always a possibility. And the language and life are systems where the exceptions are the norm. from our many years of practical experience in psychology and techniques of mind from the experience of our seminars and courses, where we have experienced countless moments of discussion and experimentation of the techniques described. from the theoretical competence being responsible for what has been the most innovative school in Italy over the last ten years. from measurements taken with various equipments with which we have verified many of the techniques that we teach Deep concepts for the development of man Our system is extremely innovative and has not only external applications, improving your mental power. It is also a way of human growth. A basic concept is the man in the universe and his subjective reality. It starts from the consideration that all the psychological disciplines seek to develop human potential, but no one questions the goal of achieving greater skills and abilities, and how to integrate these elements with awareness. Only accessing subjectively and really the complete structure of man you can figure out how to access its potential. This has consequences: In an organization it becomes clear how every performance is linked to the "human factor" and the "sense" that people feels in the organization. Our system is also the key to the realization of a true "Quantum Coaching" At therapeutic levels, we realize that beyond the various techniques there is a person with which we operate and resonate and the relationship should take this into account, as well as the fact that we are a person and therefore we influence the results On a personal level, we open up to the two ways of human development: The Two Fundamental ways for the Development of the Person There are two avenues of growth for the human being: path A and path B - The direct path (path A) is the “heroic” path. For those who want to go directly to the deepest of themselves, to get the most high state of consciousness that a human being can live. - The indirect path (path B) also called “magical” path, is for people who do not have the concentration and the energy to do so because they are too distracted by daily life and therefore they want to achieve some goals (eg, success, health, money, relationships) before to have enough energy to follow the path A. We accept the fact that each has his own way of seeing the world. It is a technique of freedom. Path B of Human Development and Quantum Technologies If implemented wisely, following path B is positive and act as a first useful step allowing a person to develop to its fullest potential and resources. This brochure will deal essentially with path B, as we do not believe that there are at this time a sufficient number of people able to deal directly via A. In addition, those who are not able to get results in life is probable that are in such a situation because they don’t have all of their resources. Therefore it is very unlikely they will have the energy required to follow the path A. But there is another even more important reason. In today world we assist tio the fact that there is a continouis search for way B procedures forgetting the man who practices them. Only few techniques work in the best direction for the operator .. While allowing you to achieve results in the short, or even in the medium term if we have in the mind of a direction of development that is aligned only with contingent elements, instead that with the real and profound human nature, the risk of psychosomatic problems, or to move away from center more and more is too high. Our method unlike any previous technology focuses on the doer rather than on the done. We think therefore important to indicate a feasible and positive path. Three INNER STEPS FOR REAL development In our view, learning these techniques must be part of a path also a transformation of the human being. It is true that persuasion and healing habilities will be greatly enhanced, and it is also true that in our discipline a key point is the operator that must become a true Master. Traditionally, from the most ancient times there were three steps a person must do to get to the top and really be a Master: Step 1 – getting rid of unnecessary thoughts and needs. The level 1 is preliminary and can be done with various methods. It consists in the awareness of the existence of the basis states and in overcoming all the obstacles that may exist in order to begin to access to level 2. In practice, the participant solves all its states of stress baseline. Ordinary man’s mind is full of a cloud of thinking and of want. First step needs a person create a clear mind - the ancient alchemists called it making the salt cristal clear. It means a mind no more cluttered by the encrusting of habits and a different relationship with the body where we live in the body. Step 2 – grasping the first level quantum view of reality.