from measurements taken with various equipment with which we have verified many of the techniques that we teach. Deep concepts for the development of man Our system is extremely innovative and has not only external applications, improving your mental power. It is also a way of human growth. A basic concept is the man in the universe and his subjective reality. It starts from the consideration that all the psychological disciplines seek to develop human potential, but no one questions the goal of achieving greater skills and abilities, and how to integrate these elements with awareness. Only accessing subjectively and really the complete structure of man you can figure out how to access its potential. This has consequence: In an organization it becomes clear how every performance is linked to the "human factor" and the "sense" that people feels in the organization. Our system is also the key to the realization of a true "Quantum Coaching" At therapeutic levels, we realize that beyond the various techniques there is a person with which we operate and resonate and the relationship should take this into account, as well as the fact that we are a person and therefore we influence the results On a personal level, we open up to the two ways of human development: The Two Fundamental ways for the Development of the Person There are two avenues of growth for the human being: path A and path B - The direct path (path A) is the “heroic” path. For those who want to go directly to the deepest of themselves, to get the most high state of consciousness that a human being can live. - The indirect path (path B) also called “magical” path, is for people who do not have the concentration and the energy to do so because they are too distracted by daily life and therefore they want to achieve some goals (eg, success, health, money, relationships) before to have enough energy to follow the path A. We accept the fact that each has his own way of seeing the world. It is a technique of freedom. Path B of Human Development and Quantum Technologies If implemented wisely, following path B is positive and acts as a first useful step allowing a person to develop to its fullest potential and resources. This brochure will deal essentially with path B, as we do not believe that there are at this time a sufficient number of people able to deal directly via A. In addition, those who are not able to get results in life it is probable that they are in such a situation because they don’t have all of their resources. Therefore it is very unlikely they will have the energy required to follow the path A. But there is another even more important reason. In today’s world, we assist to the fact that there is a continuous search for way B procedures forgetting the man who practices them. Only a few techniques work in the best direction for the operator. While allowing you to achieve results in the short, or even in the medium term if we have in the mind a direction of development that is aligned only with contingent elements, instead that with the real and profound human nature, the risk of psychosomatic problems, or to move away from the center more and more is too high. Our method unlike any previous technology focuses on the doer rather than on the done. We think it therefore important to indicate a feasible and positive path. Three INNER STEPS FOR REAL development In our view, learning these techniques must be part of a path also and transformation of the human being. It is true that persuasion and healing abilities will be greatly enhanced, and it is also true that in our discipline a key point is the operator that must become a true Master. Traditionally, from the most ancient times there were three steps a person must do to get to the top and really be a Master: Step 1 – getting rid of unnecessary thoughts and needs. The level 1 is preliminary and can be done with various methods. It consists in the awareness of the existence of the basis states and in overcoming all the obstacles that may exist in order to begin to access to level 2. In practice, the participant solves all its states of stress baseline. Ordinary man’s mind is full of a cloud of thinking and of want. The first step needs a person to create a clear mind - the ancient alchemists called it making the salt crystal clear. It means a mind no more cluttered by the encrusting of habits and a different relationship with the body where we live in the body. Step 2 – grasping the first level quantum view of reality. At level 2 the participant expands the basics and become better able to master the external activators to expand its awareness. He experiences the natural series basis of some deep states of consciousness and can already start with the first steps of growth thereafter. Such states are important as well as for individual development, and also are of great importance in the therapy and are the basis of the model of long-term permanent change. In this level we understand that we are part of the same universe we are observing. This awareness must be a daily awareness, not just a glimpse. Step 3 – enhancing the inner fire. At level 3, the participant is now ready to learn the techniques directed towards the center of himself, in a direction that is the complete transformation of the individual. This is climbing the ladder of personal development beyond even the meaning of these words. We go in touch with a superior state of reality and consciousness. The ancient called this step enhancing the sulphur, as sulphur contains in itself the root of fire. The techniques of this level cannot be exposed to words as they require the knowledge of the earlier steps to be understood. These three steps and their succession comes from a centuries old tradition, whose goal is bringing back man to himself. ACADEMIC MASTER RESEARCH PROJECT Our work will have a bigger value, if done in contact with the reality and part of a bigger project. The trainee can realize and have all his studies become a recognized part of a Personal Master Research and Development Project. People wanting to do the Master Research Project are the people that in the future will most spread these techniques. CAIRN is an academic consortium and ISI-CNV is part of it. It will recognize credits to this project and give a doctorate or a recognition. This doctorate is based in Nepal. Cairn has a list of about 30 professors that can try to endorse it in different countries, but we cannot guarantee it always. So please take this certificate more as an endorsement of your work if your country doesn’t recognize it. INTERNATIONAL NETWORK FOR KNOWLEDGE EURO -ASIAN ACADEMIC NETWORK RESEARCH IN Higher Practical Mental Sciences Neurosciences - Tibetan Mysticism - Scientific Hypnosis - Western and Oriental Esoteric Paths of Power and Therapy We are the only ones with an international curriculum aimed at researchers and students with the purpose of achieving the highest levels and we are open to admit other institutes or schools providing similar objectives. Our units are based in Europe and Asia (Nepal). Based on an International Academic Euro Asiatic Network for research Opening a chapter in your country A person working seriously can open a branch/chapter in his country and get endorsement by all structures in which we are active. It can realize: A research chapter An operative chapter Or both A research chapter contributes to the research work of the school. It can even have recognition from CAIRN or the school An operative branch organizes courses and participates in the activities of the institute To be head of a chapter a person must be a Mentor. A mentor is a person with specific qualities and experiences in the filed in which he is operating, and know profoundly the techniques. Mentor was the name of the person to which Ulysses gave his son Telemacus before one of his long travels. But Mentor is also the form that the goddess Athena takes in various moments of the Odyssey (Athena is Minerva in Latin, goddess of intelligence but also eponim of wisdom). Expanding our magnetic chain About the teaching of magnetism contained in our magnetic path, creating a branch or a chapter permits also to expand the “magnetic chain”. In quantum terms the “magnetic chain” is an entanglement between the members of a group. In fact we observe certain phenomena when more persons work together on some issue. These effects have been also studied and labeled as “morphic field”: "The morphic fields include all kinds of organizing fields: The organizing fields of animal and human behaviour, of social and cultural systems, and of mental activity can all be regarded as morphic fields which contain an inherent memory." According to the essential uses, customs and traditions of Magnetism and most particular Hermetic orders, which have been scrupulously preserved by our lineage, a recognized branch has the power to make and develop teaching about magnetism, according to the lineages that we preserve and all groups that continue them are inside the so called "magnetic chain" and are to be considered as regular and develop this “inner memory”. There are some specific points that are set for a group to be considered as regular in working with magnetism: 1 - not taking political or religious dogmatic point of view 2 - preserve and study the tradition respecting it and staying obviously in the lineage 3 - develop the work of presence 4 - divulge with respect to the discipline and of the other fellows practitioners 5 - adhere to the vaster group Mesmerismus ® -Magnetic Path First step of Magnetic Path Secrets of magnetic inductions The word Mesmerismus ® means connecting the forces of nature to his work and to his influence. Having these forces available, in creating the plan of his life, everyone can aim for the top. In life with others: Personal Magnetism leads to develop personal and professional success, and on another level to understand and act on the mechanisms of attraction and relationships. Well-being: the techniques created according to the model of Mesmerismus ® invigorate and also lead to personal well being. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS The course shall issue the certificate of international Magnetist Emeritus in combination with the course of Mesmerismus base. FEE: Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - Exercises and experiences magnetic base - Symbols and magnetism - First Protocol "conscience" - Exercises for the rapid development of magnetic force and vitality - Various daily practices of magnetism and magnetism experimental - Second Protocol "energy" - M taste and magnetic ipnogeno Second day : - Exercises rejuvenation - Theories of Bersek and strength development - The two cerebral hemispheres and how to use their strength - Personal magnetism in life - Magnetism Remote - Third Protocol "connection" - Develop the power of voice - Develop the power of the gaze - The two polarities and how to develop - Fourth Protocol "concentration" - Various demonstrations FASCINATION – Magnetic Path Second step of Magnetic Path Secrets of Fascination With these techniques you can learn how to influence others and yourself. Learning FASCINATION means learning the hidden keys of the GAZE. Technically we define “fascination” as a particular mental state, similar to what occurs when we are involved from a movie or something that attracts our attention. The analysis of the phenomena of fascination involves the use of multiple brain areas: • The part of the brain that interprets what he sees, that connects the cerebral cortex • The part of the brain that lives emotions that connects to the limbic system • And the deepest part of ourselves, our reptilian brain, which provides the basis of the process of fascination, blocking our attention The process is triadic: recognition and observation of an item => emotional charge => fascination and capture attention. The STATE OF FASCINATION is different from the classic trance. Thanks to the fascination of the events you can get hypnotic effects without any possible form of suggestion, and no one can attribute this result to the expectation of the same. Fascination is a specific hypnotic state. One of the most amazing and hypnotic forms at the same time and one of the most consistent in the results that you can get. The subject has some physical signs: softening of the jaw muscles, eyes open with little or no beat, a general dumbing down. In this state, the focus is and the suggestions of the hypnotist are followed instantly. Frequently the person's eyes fascinated shall set as attached on the eyes of the charmer and he does not stand out more. Many subjects also recount that he/she does not remember anything at the end of the experience. Another kind of fascination is to influence and persuade, and not by chance that the term has come into common parlance to indicate the ability to capture attention. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course will give you the international certificate of MAGNETISTA EMERITUS if also the level 1 of Mesmerismus had been completed. QUOTA DI PARTECIPAZIONE: Valore reale del corso 1390,00 euro, iscrivendosi almeno un mese prima dell’inizio del corso l’importo sarà ridotto e si usufruirà del prezzo in promozione di 799,00 euro. How Long Two days First Day: Various fascination exercises Gypsy Hypnosis Raw fascination Donato’s Method How to use fascination for regression work Second Day : Types of gaze Amnesic fascination Di Pisa’s Healing Method Faria’s points Hypnomagnetism with fascination A powerful method against traumas Third eye techniques Working with mirrors QUANTUM PRESENCE– Master in QUANTUM PHYSIOLOGY –Magnetic Path Third STEP of the MAGNETIC PATH Presence and Alchemy of the Light What we call "presence" is the path of human development toward a higher self-awareness. It 's the culmination of all the traditions of self-seeking. It also is a state with practical consequences and verifiable, here are a few: An example: one of our employees in some matches in the world of karate (he was runner-up world of the world) went into a strange state: the time of others seemed slowed down, while its normal proceeded. The result? he always won. Many so-called "states of high performance" where a person is extremely capable (expressive, creative, attentive, able to exploit its potential) sometimes contain elements of the Way of the Presence although they are still on the initial part of the journey, because such a development guides towards a true rebirth of the person. Developing the means to get out from mental automaticity, presence gives us access to our real potential and then things that previously seemed impossible become possible and near. Much of human actions are performed mechanically in fact, as a succession of cause and effect. The consciousness of man is usually narrow and dominated by unconscious elements. The technical development of the person of the "presence" or "power" (also defined as "solar" or "dry") are to develop a particular process with abandonment of the false personality and development of a new central principle and unified. The person is led on the way to its essence, that part of himself that rarely occurs, but when it happens we experience a feeling of well-being unspeakable. The "Reintegration in the presence" in the ultimate degree can only be represented with symbols, words are not enough. And the highest state of consciousness reached by the man who is also accompanied in the upper echelons of phenomena specific to an parasensoriale. It 'a practical reality: Matter, Energy and Consciousness in the report. And 'the concept of "enlightenment" that also exists in Eastern traditions (such as Dzogchen).