Having these forces available, in creating the plan of his life, everyone can aim for the top. In life with others: Personal Magnetism leads to develop personal and professional success, and on another level to understand and act on the mechanisms of attraction and relationships. Well-being: the techniques created according to the model of Mesmerismus ® invigorate and also lead to personal well being. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATIONS The course shall issue the certificate of international Magnetist Emeritus in combination with the course of Mesmerismus base. FEE: Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - Exercises and experiences magnetic base - Symbols and magnetism - First Protocol "conscience" - Exercises for the rapid development of magnetic force and vitality - Various daily practices of magnetism and magnetism experimental - Second Protocol "energy" - M taste and magnetic ipnogeno Second day : - Exercises rejuvenation - Theories of Bersek and strength development - The two cerebral hemispheres and how to use their strength - Personal magnetism in life - Magnetism Remote - Third Protocol "connection" - Develop the power of voice - Develop the power of the gaze - The two polarities and how to develop - Fourth Protocol "concentration" - Various demonstrations FASCINATION – Magnetic Path Second step of Magnetic Path Secrets of Fascination With these techniques you can learn how to influence others and yourself. Learning FASCINATION means learning the hidden keys of the GAZE. Technically we define “fascination” as a particular mental state, similar to what occurs when we are involved from a movie or something that attracts our attention. The analysis of the phenomena of fascination involves the use of multiple brain areas: • The part of the brain that interprets what he sees, that connects the cerebral cortex • The part of the brain that lives emotions that connects to the limbic system • And the deepest part of ourselves, our reptilian brain, which provides the basis of the process of fascination, blocking our attention The process is triadic: recognition and observation of an item => emotional charge => fascination and capture attention. The STATE OF FASCINATION is different from the classic trance. Thanks to the fascination of the events you can get hypnotic effects without any possible form of suggestion, and no one can attribute this result to the expectation of the same. Fascination is a specific hypnotic state. One of the most amazing and hypnotic forms at the same time and one of the most consistent in the results that you can get. The subject has some physical signs: softening of the jaw muscles, eyes open with little or no beat, a general dumbing down. In this state, the focus is and the suggestions of the hypnotist are followed instantly. Frequently the person's eyes fascinated shall set as attached on the eyes of the charmer and he does not stand out more. Many subjects also recount that he/she does not remember anything at the end of the experience. Another kind of fascination is to influence and persuade, and not by chance that the term has come into common parlance to indicate the ability to capture attention. INTERNATIONAL CERTIFICATION This course will give you the international certificate of MAGNETISTA EMERITUS if also the level 1 of Mesmerismus had been completed. QUOTA DI PARTECIPAZIONE: Valore reale del corso 1390,00 euro, iscrivendosi almeno un mese prima dell’inizio del corso l’importo sarà ridotto e si usufruirà del prezzo in promozione di 799,00 euro. How Long Two days First Day: Various fascination exercises Gypsy Hypnosis Raw fascination Donato’s Method How to use fascination for regression work Second Day : Types of gaze Amnesic fascination Di Pisa’s Healing Method Faria’s points Hypnomagnetism with fascination A powerful method against traumas Third eye techniques Working with mirrors QUANTUM PRESENCE– Master in QUANTUM PHYSIOLOGY –Magnetic Path Third STEP of the MAGNETIC PATH Presence and Alchemy of the Light What we call "presence" is the path of human development toward a higher self-awareness. It 's the culmination of all the traditions of self-seeking. It also is a state with practical consequences and verifiable, here are a few: An example: one of our employees in some matches in the world of karate (he was runner-up world of the world) went into a strange state: the time of others seemed slowed down, while its normal proceeded. The result? he always won. Many so-called "states of high performance" where a person is extremely capable (expressive, creative, attentive, able to exploit its potential) sometimes contain elements of the Way of the Presence although they are still on the initial part of the journey, because such a development guides towards a true rebirth of the person. Developing the means to get out from mental automaticity, presence gives us access to our real potential and then things that previously seemed impossible become possible and near. Much of human actions are performed mechanically in fact, as a succession of cause and effect. The consciousness of man is usually narrow and dominated by unconscious elements. The technical development of the person of the "presence" or "power" (also defined as "solar" or "dry") are to develop a particular process with abandonment of the false personality and development of a new central principle and unified. The person is led on the way to its essence, that part of himself that rarely occurs, but when it happens we experience a feeling of well-being unspeakable. The "Reintegration in the presence" in the ultimate degree can only be represented with symbols, words are not enough. And the highest state of consciousness reached by the man who is also accompanied in the upper echelons of phenomena specific to an parasensoriale. It 'a practical reality: Matter, Energy and Consciousness in the report. And 'the concept of "enlightenment" that also exists in Eastern traditions (such as Dzogchen). To get to have both presence is essential to know the direction of the methods that facilitate the path While having the lead contact with a single and simple exercises are sufficient to deepen, the group allows you to run more quickly and in a few days what alone could put years. That's the reason for this course. We propose a method, originally secret, simple (even if it requires perseverance) and tested, the best existing to achieve this state of human functioning. This method is updated with approaches to quantum psychology and others. Alchemy of the Light The light can be a tool that helps the transformation. The course will mention also to various traditions and secret sealed western and eastern to which we had access staff to create this initiative and who are given the participants a basic key to understanding. All Traditions called "alchemy" in fact have at their heart the presence instantly as understood in this workshop. The course, developed, can also lead to the level of the so-called "philosopher's stone" of human transformation. The concept of "Alchemy of Light" is twofold. Both reconnects to what was said in the previous rows (hermetic tradition), and reconnects to the techniques where the light is a factor of help since it allows to facilitate understanding of certain processes allowing a better brain activation, although the presence and symbolic work remains fundamental. In order to attempt an explanation of the usefulness which light is regaled with, we are presently going to resort to a series of reflections based on modern quantum theory. The Universe is a whole. From this whole, our perception “exercises” some parts. The parts thus severed from the whole correspond to certain vibrational states of our neurons. In order to see a tree, for instance, the neurons of the visual cortex must be activated in a manner in which is different from the one that is needed when, to give an example, we discern a mountain. This very same concept is also at the heart of Pribram and Bohm’s holonomic theory: "Every sense works like a lens, and thus refocuses the visual waves both by perceiving specific elements which are reiterated so as to establish an underpinning basis, and by perceiving distinct quantities. If we were to take the lenses off, only a hologram would be left”. Given that every sense works by refocusing in accordance with certain mechanisms, it is very difficult to regain access to the WHOLE. We might call this whole a "totipotent whole", by drawing a comparison with the concept of "totipotence" which is used in the biology relating to stem cells that are capable of growing in every cell of the organism. White light is a "totipotent whole", inasmuch as it encompasses all the colours in its quantum superposition. What we name reality is purely the light that gets reflected on the different objects. Every visible object is already potentially present in the white light. Many experiences share the experience of light. When we observe light and, even more significantly, when we are able to discern or imagine white light even if our eyes are shut, we are drawing close to the “totipotent field", which is in turn quite closely related to the concept of "quantum field". FEE: Real value of the course 1390,00 euro, enrolling at least one month before the course the amount will be reduced and we will make use of the price in promotion of 799,00 €. DURATION Two days of workshops First day: - The physical level - The mental level - The emotional level - Concept of consciousness - Exercises presence - Separation of layers - Magnetic massage and ipnogeno Second day: - Techniques for anxiety, discomfort, negative thoughts - Recovery of the concept of consciousness - Purpose of the presence - Exercises for awareness - False core - Essential core - Exercises of presence in the mirror Magnetic Massage Inside the course will be presented the magnetic massage: you can also become an operator. In our school, a leader in non-verbal methods, we have also developed two extremely empowering technologies that multiply the result of Magnetism and even hypnosis also opening a new professional direction. Although the name 'massage' is used, the techniques taught can be carried out by anyone. If you learn from a professional masseur can be a bridge to combine hypnosis and magnetism in their practice. This is an unique technologies based on direct transmissions and experiences of dr. Paret (massage ipnogeno) and not spread in the same way in any other school, with powerful therapeutic results. The complete methodology is presented within the Master in Quantum Physiology (Quantum Presence) so that those who attend the course and Mesmerismus presence Quantum can also become operator of magnetic massage attending also a small personal coaching LUXMIND and quantum Psi technologies -A new technology for the mind- Quantum Psi is a new technology that rediscovers the fundamentals of human genius and of the highest achievements of the mind. It is based on recent theoretical research. In our school it is combined with practical elements that make learning easy and immediate: in fact in the courses using for a number of elements (specific rhythms, ideas, etc ...) that make it a feasible, immediate and a simple application of the model to every practical purposes . Luxmind is about releasing the power of the mind. It is an advanced technology spread all over our courses. Among the usefulness of this technique is that we use the power of our mind to work on multiple items at the same time and make instant assessments with the power of a quantum computer human. It is the key of genius, creativity, and for the highest achievements of the human spirit. It is also method of learning that improves vision of associations and connections between the various elements. This Quantum Discipline is a new class of science is completely different from the others that preceded it. By its very nature is interdisciplinary. It starts from the ideas to which modern research has opened and applies them in new areas such as the psychological and social. Therefore applies the uncertainty principle, the superposition of quantum states etc ... Techniques and concepts - A small glossary We have developed many new techniques and applications. In specific Quantum Psi has been connected to the system LuxMind in the unique and powerful paradigm of Quantum Extreme ®. Here is a short glossary of some of the key concepts of the techniques of Quantum Extreme ®: 1. Mental initialization: is the determination of the starting point of a transformation or a creative process of our mind 2. Register of mental states and possible informations: determining the number of possible states, that is the starting point for quantum operations and the creation of a coherent superposition. At this point, our unconscious mind can begin to operate 3. Interference from one item to the other: the act of an element on the set of transformations (calculations) quantum. Examples of interference are for example those made by symbolic elements. 4. Quantum Correlation/Entanglement: the fact that the two elements can come into contact and subsequently maintain a ratio (entanglement) between them. This concept applies even to magnetism, where people entangle at a distance and create distant reactions 5. Equilibrium/Balance is the central position that eliminates dissipative situations 6. Amplification of mental coherence The use of elements and rhythms that amplify the extreme quantum mode. 7. Reducing information: the reduction of the amount of information to a single element 8. Implicated order and explicate order: the two positions 9. Coherence and Decoherence of neuronal information: We need concentration. For a quantum computation can take place it is essential that the information remains consistent and is not lost to the environment 10. Holographic Model: the holographic model is essential to constitute a theory of learning and information retrieval. Approach implies a "top-down". 11. Presence and consciousness and their relationship with the implicate order. Presence can be a pathway to accede to the implicate order starting from the explicate order 12. Phase and Frequency: The information you have the same phase can be combined more easily. The interference patterns apply to this situation The model of reality of Quantum PSI Quantum Psi observes reality by dividing it into layers.