MESMERISMUS LEVEL ONE Consciousness and Thought Energy Connection Concentration Concentrate Sunlight Transmit the Force of Fire First Protocol – Consciousness Assumes Control of the Elements1 Stop ! Be still! Become conscious of yourself and your body. Become conscious of what you feel, see and hear. (end of stop) Repeat mentally: Consciousness is a force. In me and around me. From now on, I will pay attention to this force. If consciousness is awakened in us, it is possible to control the mental powers naturally. Consciousness is beyond time and space. Observe this object (observe a light or reflection). Close your physical eyes. Look at it again. Now strengthen your mind’s eyes. Before your mental eyes put people you know in a maximum number of places known to you. (wait a few seconds…) STOP in space – you see, you feel, you hear Independently of the distance, your thoughts return to persons or places. Consciousness is beyond space. Space plays no role in it. Consciousness dominates space. By means of thought, try to reconstruct and again see before you, buildings or settings which no longer exist. Seek to see them as they existed in the past. Their image is present in your eyes. (wait a few seconds…) STOP in time – see, feel, hear (end of stop) Consciousness dominates time. Man carries divine consciousness inside himself, which maintains the existence of the world and can recreate it at any moment. Just as a drop which is part of the ocean is made of the same water, so man is in everything. Man concentrates in himself all of the kinds of matter of the world and is in touch with all of the kinds of matter of the world. He who can give his attention to this permanent connection between himself and surrounding nature will learn to feel himself subject to knowledge with regard to the objects he sees. By using the power of thought, a person realizes that it is a kind of matter which surrounds us like light and air. While seated, say “now I am staying still." (Practice) - now I am staying still. At this point, you are to do nothing, other than keeping your attention on your body, which under no circumstances must move. 10 seconds Now say, “now I am standing up.” You must always make an action follow the thought immediately. HERE IS THE THIRD TEACHING. The world, like me, is composed of five elements: earth, water, air, ether and mind. Consciousness controls the elements. I am going to prove it with solids and liquids. Sit down and hold yourself steady. STAY ABSOLUTELY STILL. Open your eyes. The effort you must make is not conscious in the traditional sense. Oberve your right arm. WILL that it rise, and it will rise to about a foot from your face. While you are watching your arm rise, notice that it is rigid. Stay still for thirty seconds. At that moment, tell yourself mentally: “my arm must become relaxed and fall again.” Your arm will then fall down again freely. Now liquid and solid kinds of matter are going to obey you. Domination of liquids and solids teaches you to be independent of external impressions and all kinds of pains. Repeat mentally: “Now my entire body must relax.” At this point, everything inside you stops, other than breathing. Your eyes remain open. At this point, say “my breathing must stop”, and with these words stop breathing. “I must resume breathing” and you resume breathing. At this point, again say, “my breathing must stop”, and with those words stop breathing. “I must resume breathing” and you resume breathing. Like solids and liquids, air also obeys consciousness. We are now working on thought. The eyes will again remain open during this exercise. Now think of the street where you live, or of another place, and say to yourself, "at present I want to concentrate my thoughts on this street." Close your eyes. Imagine all the details of the houses and their occupants. STOP in mental space - see, feel, hear The mind obeys consciousness as it does all other kinds of matter. Consciousness is the only ruler of our internal being. You will have to repeat these exercises until you are capable of carrying them out under any conditions, for example, while walking. The goal is to concentrate on yourself, on your genuine I as a spiritual being. A person who pursues this path may live without fear, even when surrounded by people and problems. He has serenity, clarity of mind and strength of a higher level. It is this strength which makes you capable of exerting control over your body, solid and liquid matter and air, and which also gives you mastery of your thoughts. It makes it possible to initiate your own thoughts and direct them at will. This manner of thinking is the path to success and accomplishment. We must make the distinction between the thoughts which are prompted by our senses and those which arise from our consciousness, which is the spirit of everything.