Ten different hypnotic patterns using your eyes. People is normally not aware of the incredible power of the eyes. These are the fastest method of inducing hypnosis. The ancient spoke of this incredible power, and even today in Italy and Russia there are often reports of robberies done with the use of the hypnotic gaze. Normally these patterns are unknown to the practicing hypnotist, as they were always diffused in closed circles. We will now examine some of them. Awakening the subconscious reaction Move your hands in the peripheral field of vision. Doing this you will touch zone of the brain different as in stimulating the center of the eye (fovea) Confusion (1) With your eyes, try to look at two different objects at the same time. This will cause your eyes to be slightly exophtalmic. This pattern will create confusion in your client. Confusion (2) Look further, as you would look beyond the person in face of yourselves. In this way he would feel both confounded and secondly he will feel as you transperse him, seeing him very deeply. Resetting the mind Look fast at the two eyes at the same time. Doing this, the normal fonctioning of the brain will be influenced and as "resetted" Cognitive contrast. Before beginning hypnosis look at one eye. After you begin look the other one. This will create "cognitive contrast" and the person will feel more your eyes on him. Concvincing Changing eye If you are trying to convince somebody and you think you are unsuccesfully, change the eye you look. As you will do like this you will notice many time that the mind of the person in face of you will "change gear" and the person will be convinced more easily Looking at the right eye This is very useful for stimulating "conscious" reasoning. Looking at the left eye This is useful to stimulate "unconscious" reasoning Looking the tip of the nose of your client This type of gaze will bring your client more inside himself. Very useful before inducing hypnosis. The mysterious look Look at the glands of the eyes of the person in face of you. He will not understand were you really look. The gaze to make a person decide Look at his breast, where the epigastrum is, and after fast in the right eye. You will see as doing it he will be put to decide faster.