{
  "title": "What is Di Pisa's \"Instant Fascination\" technique and how does it work for healing physical pain and mental problems?",
  "first_phrase": "In the last 200 tokens of this text, we get an insight into the work and methodology of Prof. Erminio Di Pisa. He had the ability to practice \"personal magnetism\" that could immediately eradicate physical pains, muscular tensions, headaches, tinnitus, and other ailments. He was ethical in his work and had a forceful personality, always striving to balance with universal harmony. He was gifted with the ability to give mediumistic diagnoses and introduced instant regressions for healing purposes. We have learned to employ this art for healing purposes from him. He treated dozens of people every week with instant healing and had a high success rate of 97%.",
  "content": "The most positive aspect of it all is that the person is feeling better! That seems impossible to the person who is merely watching. From a technical point of view, it is, on the contrary, very natural. The pains and the other problems we have referred to represent “fixed realities”. The moment we look at the subject, we settle his attention upon some other space. We would say that we are now in direct contact with the unconscious, if we wished to borrow Erickson’s terminology. The unconscious, indeed, always works for the person’s wellbeing and in his interest. We are not dealing here with some mere hypnotic suggestion, so much so that on some occasions (albeit rarely) it is necessary to operate two or three times before “the right moment can be grabbed”. If it had been no more than a suggestion, the third attempt would be bound to emulate what happened in the previous ones. As that is not the case, however, it means we have actually guided our patient to a new life dimension. Prof. Di Pisa at a TV show Our further studies Our own Nice-based school has scientifically examined the phenomenon.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the look-centred therapy is a powerful tool for eliminating negative fascinations and symptoms that arise from ancestral fears and anxieties. By guiding the patient into a state of fascination without resorting to words, therapists can transport them to a state of \"non-thinking\" where symptoms disappear. This therapy is based on the principle of observing symptoms directly and re-enacting them through fascination, allowing for a spontaneous self-reorganization that facilitates total rebalancing. The process involves transcending the ego, resulting in a more powerful tool that not only eliminates symptoms but also makes room for a total rebalancing. Ultimately, the look-centred therapy can help patients discover a new life dimension and break free from limiting thoughts, paving the way for a healthier, more fulfilling life."
}