{
  "title": "Can Look-Centered Therapy Cure Physical and Emotional Pain?",
  "first_phrase": "This text explores the phenomenon of Instant Fascination, a technique used to cure physical pain, ailments, and even emotional problems. The author discusses how Prof. Erminio Di Pisa was a master of this technique and used it ethically for curative purposes. The text goes on to describe various instances where Di Pisa used his look for instant fascinations, even in everyday life situations. The last 200 tokens of the text discuss how the technique works, including the reenactment of symptoms, which helps to achieve a state of \"void\" where the symptom no longer exists. The author also references a US research study that proves it is possible to uproot traumas without drugs by rewriting over the memory trace.",
  "content": "As stated by Rossi (1986), “by asking the patient to experience the symptom (alternatively, even by increasing it, as was for instance Erickson’s wont), we are probably switching on certain processes in the right hemisphere which are gifted with a more immediate access to the encoding of the problem that is related to the state itself” 2. A further scientific support for this theory and the useful benefit of re-enacting the symptom, to be immediately followed by a state of “void” where such symptom is no longer extant, being a result that can be achieved through fascination by the look, is provided by a research in the US we are going to make mention of. It is proven in this research that it is indeed possible to uproot traumas without needing to intervene through a drug, opting instead to “write once more” over such trace of the memory and erase it 3. Published in the Nature magazine, the successful realization of that research has been achieved by Elizabeth Phelps of New York University. In an earlier study, she had successfully tested the method on a number of small mice.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the therapy of fascination can be a powerful tool for eliminating traumatic memories and symptoms. Through a process of recalling and then re-writing over the memory, fear can be removed within a short window of time. Additionally, the process of fascination can lead to a state of void where spontaneous self-reorganization can occur, allowing for a total rebalancing. The exercises provided by Prof. Erminio Di Pisa can help develop magnetic power and positive speaking, ultimately leading to success in hypnotic abilities. With effort and practice, these techniques can improve one's health and well-being."
}