{
  "title": "Who was Prof. Erminio Di Pisa and what were his remarkable healing techniques through instant fascination?",
  "first_phrase": "In the last 200 tokens of this text, the author shares several anecdotes about the hypnotic and healing abilities of Prof. Erminio Di Pisa. He was able to cure various types of pain, neuromuscular disorders, headaches, and even helped people quit smoking in just a few seconds. Di Pisa was also very generous and gave gifts to friends and strangers alike. He was a respected expert in hypnosis and worked with numerous clients, including doctors and therapists. The author concludes by sharing a few more examples of Di Pisa's \"fascinating\" abilities, such as putting a waiter in a state of automatic coffee-making through sheer eye contact.",
  "content": "When Di Pisa finally woke him up from that state, the person concerned no longer knew where he was. Di Pisa, in fact, did not limit his self to using fascination with a high level of mastery within the four walls of his study, but did so in everyday life as well. There was a time when he invited a friend of his to a cafeteria. Purely by his look, he plunged the waiter into a state of fascination which caused him to delve into an automatic state. As a result of that, the waiter mechanically began to prepare a first cup of coffee, followed by a second and a third one, placing all of them on the counter, and went on doing that non stop. It was only then that Erminio “woke him up”. The waiter had been blissfully unaware of the whole incident! On yet a different occasion, Roberto Catalano asked him whether he, too, was able to get back as change more than what he would actually pay. Di Pisa immediately replied in the affirmative.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, Erminio \"Di Pisa\" was a renowned practitioner of \"Instant Fascination,\" a technique that enabled him to heal various bodily pains and other ailments by using his gaze to \"fascinate\" his patients. His approach was one of a kind, as he combined his fascination techniques with therapeutic dynamics aimed at resetting the mind and accessing the patient's past experiences. While some of his methods resemble those of gypsies, he was ethical in his work, and his success rate was remarkable. The therapy of the look, as he called it, is a powerful tool for eliminating negative fascinations and promoting a rebalancing of the mind."
}