{
  "title": "What is the Look-Centered Therapy and how does it relate to instant fascination and curing through symptoms for healing purposes?",
  "first_phrase": "This part of the text delves deeper into the techniques and abilities of Professor Erminio Di Pisa, who was known for his use of Instant Fascination and Instant Hypnosis to cure physical and mental ailments. The text discusses how he would use his intense gaze and post-hypnotic suggestions to automatically remove pain and how he was able to identify and fascinate people in everyday situations. The text also mentions his use of Instant Regressions to access a person's past for therapeutic purposes. The key aspect of his look-centered therapy was to observe and be observed while guiding the person to a state of non-thinking where the symptoms disappear.",
  "content": "A key aspect of the look-centred therapy is letting ourselves be observed and observing in turn the patient while we give him a chance to recollect the state that caused him problems. Thereupon, we lead the person into a state of fascination without any recourse to words. Such method, indeed, allows us to transport him into a state of “non-thinking” where the symptom disappears. It is the equivalent of resetting the mind. Within that context, for a period of time that might last more or less long, the fascinated person attains a state which is devoid of consciousness of the “ego”, that is, the totality of our mind and our automatic mental programs. The person concerned would then be “beyond the trance”. The Fascination which is carried out on a person is indisputably something that acts at an ocular level, by creating a kind of “trance” for the subject on whom one is operating. However, we are in a state of trance even in other situations. We might for example be captivated by objects or by persons, or even by our thoughts in which we drown.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the look-centred therapy offers a unique approach to dealing with psychological issues by utilizing the power of fascination and re-enactment of symptoms. It allows individuals to enter a state of void where automatic rebalancing can occur and limiting thoughts can be eliminated. The therapy has proven to be effective and has gained scientific support from research. Practicing exercises to develop magnetic power can enhance the therapy's efficacy. Overall, the therapy offers a practical and useful solution for those looking to overcome their psychological problems."
}