{
  "title": "\"How did Prof. Erminio Di Pisa use instant hypnosis to cure physical pain and other ailments?\"",
  "first_phrase": "In the last part of this text, we delve deeper into the fascinating abilities of Professor Erminio Di Pisa, a master of hypnosis who could cure various types of pain and neuro-muscular disorders instantly. He was a charismatic person who loved to wear flashy ties and lavishing gifts on people. He had mastered the art of hypnosis that allowed him to diagnose a person's sickness within seconds and remove pain quickly. He also had an exceptional success rate with asthmatics, hypertension patients, addicted people, and those with sexual or dermatological problems. Additionally, he had developed techniques to bring a person to his past in less than five seconds, which could be useful for healing purposes. In short, the last 200 tokens provide a glimpse into the amazing world of Professor Erminio Di Pisa and his unparalleled mastery of hypnosis.",
  "content": "This subject casually threw a look behind the transparent glass window of the nearby cafeteria, and felt as if he was electrocuted. Prof. Di Pisa was fond of mentioning the fact that some subjects respond to the power of a look at once, and that he was able to identify them without any delay from their gait as well as other telling details, by virtue of the same sensibility which enabled him to formulate correct diagnoses. This specific subject who was walking by Via Procaccini fell into the said category. Not surprisingly, therefore, Erminio, from inside the cafeteria, resorted to a brusque movement by raising his hands and staring at his eyes intensely while such person was crossing the road. The subject suddenly remained motionless in the middle of the street, frozen in that condition for a good thirty seconds, until Di Pisa eventually lowered his arms. He did not let anything intimidate him. One day, while in Piazza Cairoli, he pointed his index finger at an approaching passer-by chosen at random, whereupon he started issuing him such injunctions as, ‘Go there’ and ‘Turn that way’. The passer-by promptly carried out the said instructions in a hypnotic state, without realizing what was going on.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the power of fascination through the look is a powerful therapeutic tool that can be used for the benefit of patients. Professor Di Pisa was a master of this technique, which he used to cure physical pains, muscular tensions, headaches, and other ailments. By guiding the patient beyond mental habits and fixed realities, a state of \"non-thinking\" can be achieved, allowing the person to reset their mind and experience relief from their symptoms. Through methods such as re-enacting the problem and utilizing the crisis as a cure, the power of fascination through the look can be harnessed to great effect."
}