{
  "title": "\"Can instant fascination cure physical and mental health problems? The techniques and experiences of Prof. Erminio Di Pisa.\"",
  "first_phrase": "The last 200 tokens of this text described the exceptional abilities of Professor Erminio Di Pisa in hypnosis, particularly in using his power of fascination to heal individuals suffering from different types of pain and disorders. Previous anecdotes attested to his mastery of hypnotic techniques such as instant regressions and post-hypnotic suggestions, which he used to restore balance in his clients' organisms. This final section also highlighted Di Pisa's ethical approach to his work, using his talents only for curative purposes. Despite the ostracism often faced by hypnotists in Italy, Di Pisa's remarkable success rate and efficacy had led many doctors and therapists to seek his counsel.",
  "content": "As a bet, he handed ten thousand liras to a girl, and, looking into her eyes with an intense expression, he said to her, ‘More, more, more.’ The girl then continuously gave him change without realizing what she was doing. Eventually, Di Pisa said to her, ‘You have given me too much change’, and gave the excess sum back to her. This kind of fascination, followed by an automatic motion, reminds one of some of the methods the gypsies use in order to fascinate. Professor Di Pisa, however, would only use such techniques for curative purposes. He was quite ethical in his work. In one instance, when we were at the restaurant, he wanted to give us a live teaching of how his look worked, and we were deeply impressed by it. He was extremely good at the so-called post-hypnotic suggestions, which he frequently executed by using some accompanying object. Erminio was also well-versed in instant regressions, that is, the situations where a person would access his past in a few seconds. This is a very powerful therapeutic dynamics.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the therapy of the look developed by Erminio from Pisa, also known as \"Instant Hypnosis,\" has proven to be a powerful and effective tool for eradicating physical pain and mental ailments. The technique involves creating a state of fascination in the patient through intense eye contact, which leads to a transcending of the ego and a resetting of the mind. By re-enacting the symptom and focusing on the patient's internal state, the therapist can access the unconscious and facilitate self-reorganization. This method is ethical and non-invasive, making it a valuable addition to any healthcare practice."
}