{
  "title": "\"How does Prof. Erminio Di Pisa use his intense gaze and hypnotic techniques for healing purposes?\"",
  "first_phrase": "In the final part of this text, we gain further insight into the astounding abilities of Professor Erminio Di Pisa, a master of \"instant fascination\" and hypnosis. Di Pisa used such techniques for curative purposes and would often fascinate people in everyday life to demonstrate his skill. The text describes some of the many anecdotes concerning his abilities as a fascinator, including fascinating a passerby to open an umbrella that wasn't there and making someone quit smoking in seconds. Through his techniques, Di Pisa was able to cure a variety of ailments with a 97% success rate. We also learn about his charismatic and generous personality, which garnered him a following of high-caliber clients, including doctors.",
  "content": "His friend, Ezio F., had observed that Di Pisa’s special ability to practice “personal magnetism” nearly changed the perception of the environment. Indeed, though Ezio F. had attended several times at Di Pisa’s study, he only noticed after the latter’s death that the study where he had been received several times by him when he was alive was different than he thought. It had a second door that Ezio F. had failed to see before at all, as it was situated near a portrait of Erminio (being the one reproduced here below), and his attention, which had always been attracted by Erminio’s power, had never memorized such an intrinsically visible detail. Prof. Di Pisa, depicted here in a portrait given to him as a present in South Korea, where he carried out plentiful experiments of Instant Fascination One of the most spectacular manifestations is provided by “instant fascination”. This technique has the ability to immediately eradicate physical pains, muscular tensions, headaches, tinnitus, and a whole assortment of additional ailments. We owe this methodology to Erminio from Pisa, who was accustomed to call it “Instant Hypnosis”. He was its sole practitioner throughout Italy.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the technique of Instant Fascination, developed by Erminio from Pisa, has been shown to have remarkable results in eradicating physical pains, muscular tensions, and headaches, among other ailments. The method involves guiding the patient beyond their rigid positions and mental habits through intense fascination and transporting them into a state of \"non-thinking\" where the symptom disappears. This therapy of the look is a powerful tool that frees and eliminates symptoms and, in several cases, makes room for total rebalancing. It is an innovative approach to therapy that offers possibilities beyond conventional interventions."
}