{
  "title": "Who is Prof. Erminio di Pisa and what are his instant healing techniques?",
  "first_phrase": "In the previous text, we discussed the life and work of Prof. Erminio di Pisa, an extraordinary person fascinated by instant hypnosis and healing. Prof. Erminio di Pisa was also a medium and had conducted various experiments to great acclaim. In this section, we will be discussing more about his instant healing techniques. Prof. Erminio di Pisa was widely known for his great skill in healing people in an instant. He has hypnotized more than 250,000 people and his exploits were featured on both Italian state-owned radio and television.",
  "content": "Instant Healing – Prof. Erminio di Pisa Prof. Erminio di Pisa was a person marked by exceptional charm and energy. He specialized in instant hypnosis and in instant healing especially. He was also a medium (= a psychic). Though he lived and worked in Milan, he travelled abroad as well. He was for instance in South Korea following an invitation. Therein, he carried out experiments which drew a large crowd of people interested in them. He chaired the Astrological Association of the Light since 1973, and acted as director of the Centre of Instant Hypnosis. At the age of 14, he fully devoted himself to the study of hypnotic techniques. He has hypnotized more than 250.000 persons. For several years, both the Italian state-owned radio and television have shown us his parapsychic exploits: Collective hypnosis of a theatre audience, distance paranormal healing, announcing the final result of the “Corsa Tris”, a horseracing event, fifteen minutes before it even started, and so on. He was a very expansive person, full of energy. His residence was in Milan, close to Corso Sempione, in the heart of that city. He consented to our visit after merely making a phone call to him.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, Prof. Erminio di Pisa was a fascinating individual who possessed an exceptional talent for instant hypnosis and healing. With his unique methods and techniques, he was able to cure a wide range of ailments and guide people towards a happier and healthier life. His gifts were widely recognized, and he was a respected figure both in Italy and across the world. His legacy continues to inspire and inform those interested in the art of hypnosis and healing, and his irreplaceable contributions will always hold a special place in the field."
}