{
  "title": "\"How does fascination through the look cure physical pain and mental habits?\"",
  "first_phrase": "This text discusses the techniques of instant fascination and look-centered therapy practiced by Professor Erminio Di Pisa. The therapy involves observing the patient and guiding them into a state of non-thinking or \"beyond the trance\" to reset the mind and remove symptoms. Prof. Di Pisa's ability to practice personal magnetism allowed him to use fascination for curative purposes, instantly eradicating physical pains and other ailments. He was gifted with an ability to give mediumistic diagnoses and could identify subjects who respond to the power of his look. The last 200 tokens describe the process of curing through the symptom and utilizing the crisis as a cure.",
  "content": "The majority of people is indeed totally gripped, “fascinated” by their own mental mechanisms. This is the reason why the same mechanisms are invariably reiterated, and why a problem is preserved and perpetuated. By means of the look, we thus intervene in the very mechanisms which produce the “fascination” by means of ideas or concepts that beset the subject via these mechanisms themselves. There is yet another way of proceeding: This second method consists in contacting the symptoms directly. The process is termed by some people “curing through the symptom”. Through the patient’s total concentration on his symptom, in fact, we can carve out a path allowing us to speak to that part of the brain which generates such a symptom. We thereby give effect to a mechanism which some healers have already resorted to, namely, \"utilizing the crisis as a cure\" 1. What at that point facilitates the efficacy and, in particular, the rapidity of the process, is the re-enactment of the problem itself.",
  "last_phrase": "In conclusion, the therapy of the look offers a powerful tool for freeing oneself from negative fascination derived from life experiences. By contacting symptoms directly and re-enacting them, a path is carved out that allows for a more immediate access to the encoding of the problem. Additionally, through the process of \"curing through the symptom\", the brain can be rewired to erase traumatic memories and anxieties. With dedication and practice, one can develop their magnetic power, enabling positive speaking and the ability to focus their thought on one thing, leading to a healthier and more balanced life."
}