Instant Healing – Prof. Erminio di Pisa
Prof. Erminio di Pisa was a person marked by exceptional charm and energy. He specialized in instant hypnosis and in instant healing especially. He was also a medium 
(= a psychic). Though he lived and worked in Milan, he travelled abroad as well. He was for instance in South Korea following an invitation. Therein, he carried out experiments which drew a large crowd of people interested in them. 
He chaired the Astrological Association of the Light since 1973, and acted as director of the Centre of Instant Hypnosis. 
At the age of 14, he fully devoted himself to the study of hypnotic techniques. 
He has hypnotized more than 250.000 persons. For several years, both the Italian state-owned radio and television have shown us his parapsychic exploits: Collective hypnosis of a theatre audience, distance paranormal healing, announcing the final result of the “Corsa Tris”, a horseracing event, fifteen minutes before it even started, and so on.
He was a very expansive person, full of energy. His residence was in Milan, close to Corso Sempione, in the heart of that city. 
He consented to our visit after merely making a phone call to him. He simply said to us, ‘Come.’ When we first met him, with all that he had never knew us before, he was open and gentle, quite accessible and energetic from the word go. He was pleased that, in Italy, some young persons were sincerely interested in his techniques and shared some aspects of his characteristic nature. 
He was very often with doctors and therapists who visited him regularly, either because of ties of friendship or due to the fact they were curious about his techniques. He had even been called by the San Raffaele Hospital in Milan to lend help to some operations through the use of hypnosis. That was a truly remarkable acknowledgment, given the ostracism often meted out to practitioners of magnetism and hypnosis within the Italian medical fraternity.
A short while after we began to visit him on a regular basis, he started sending us people who were asking him to teach them hypnotic techniques. We found that extremely pleasing, as we had never explicitly demanded such favour from him. We would meet him either in his study or by a seafood restaurant which was not far from his house, and where he invariably offered to pay for our meals, even though we were always at least two visitors if not more. Add to it the fact that, whenever he went to the restaurant, he would hypnotize two or three persons in passing.
He was in fact a munificent person who loved lavishing gifts on people. He gave us as present the book “Septenary of Higher Hypnosis”, which in those days was only meant to be read by a small elite. He had gifted some friends of his sharing an interest in esotericism certain talismans which amounted to real jewels cast in gold and precious stones. If he came across a beggar in the street, he would always hand him some generous sums of money. He was in fact possessed of ample means, which he had received from high calibre people who used to seek and frequent him in such a number that he was unable to see too many clients for his work.
A number of doctors, too, were accustomed to pay him visits as regular clients of his. Erminio had developed a series of powerful techniques, which could empower the removal, within the space of a few seconds, of a multiplicity of different pains, as well as the solution of a great many problems. 

Prof. Muzzana, a psychiatrist, said:
“Erminio acts on the autonomous thalamus and hypothalamus within our cerebral axis, namely, the vegetative brain. He extirpates distress, and restores happiness and self-confidence. He removes addiction to smoking, alcohol and drugs. He has an exceptional rate of success with asthmatics, people affected by hypertension, and those beset by sexual problems or treated by dermatologists. I have attended hundreds of conferences on hypnosis: Whenever the speaker was asked to give a practical demonstration, he was almost always unable to bring it off successfully. That is not the case of Erminio Di Pisa... He is sure of succeeding! His certainty, combined with technique, bestows on him an irresistible blend of authority and efficacy which, along with experience, is able to perfect the inborn and extraordinary talents he is undoubtedly singled out by. While the hypnotized person is waiting for something, the phenomenon unfolds itself instantly. Heartfelt thanks are owed therefore to Erminio for being the catalyst of a return to a type of hypnosis which speaks directly to the recesses of our nervous system, through its recorded instructions which shall, post-hypnotically, be honoured for sure. Let us not forget that, as the Chinese version of Taoism contends, five out of ten sick persons are cured by doing nothing, simply by restoring balance in their own organism. A doctor who cures six or seven patients is one who displays an abundant command of his art. Erminio goes further, by seeking to harmonize his nature with his individual subjects!”
Prof. Erminio di Pisa was wont to assiduously cure dozens of people on a weekly basis, within his study, as part of his regular professional activity. 
He treated with instant healing:
Most types of pain
Neuromuscular disorders
Capsulitis
Headaches
Some gastric problems
Tinnitus

Most of these persons would get cured in a single session lasting ten seconds or so with a 97% success rate. Even those people who were most susceptible of recurrent relapses needed no more than 2 to 3 sessions before the beneficial effects of fascination accomplished through the look embedded themselves firmly in their organisms. 

He did also cure, very rapidly, a lot of other pathologies. He wrote a book on its techniques that met with a lot of success, but in reality he put longer inductions in it than he did in reality. When he worked, his keyword was “instantly”.

Prof. Erminio was a person marked by a forceful personality. In his work methodology, as was the case with the ancient people, he always strove to be in a state of balance with universal harmony, which he used to discern as a result of his astrological studies.
He did also Instant Regressions (regressions based on fascination and with an induction lasting less than 5 seconds), i.e. bringing a person to his past. This also can be useful for healing purposes

It is thus from him that we have learnt how to employ this art for healing purposes. 
Prof. Erminio, too, had been directly introduced to this discipline, in 1973, by another master: Prof. Caravelli. The latter was a masterful expert in the so-called art of “bi-location”, so much so that he could be simultaneously perceived in two different places.
Di Pisa, too, practiced similar techniques.

We note that in a quantum view of the world, location is a construction of the senses. At a quantum implicate level of reality, everything is connected. The key is going beyond sensing reality in the ordinary way. The exercise of Di Pisa used reflected light as an important tool. 

Prof. Di Pisa was also a fervent admirer of Donato, and he sometimes used the name “Prof. Donato”. 

We should mention, at this stage, some distinguishing features of his personality.

He paid the closest attention to details and was extremely alert in every situation. He was truly present, capable as such of perceiving whatever was taking place. Because of that quality, he was gifted with a deep ability to give mediumistic diagnoses. Within the space of a few seconds only, he could inform a person about any sickness he had. All he needed from his subject was a few seconds’ smile, which he often elicited from him by cracking a joke. In many instances, he only needed the time at which one waits at a robot. I remember that, once, when we had stopped at a robot, he started telling an elderly woman whatever disease was plaguing her, and where exactly it did so in her body, and the woman immediately confirmed the full accuracy of his information.

He had a positive and optimistic character, and was always ready to share a witty remark. He was, above all, always prepared to fascinate and hypnotize. He would attract his client through his smile and amiable personality. If we talk of vibrations, well, he was a man sending out strong vibrations. He was quite a charismatic person.
Everything he said was imbued with the tone of certainty. He loved to wear very flashy ties, as he knew they would create at once a focus of attention for whoever he happened to meet. At the same time, Prof. Erminio Di Pisa was also fond of joking and fascinating while in informal contexts. Sometimes, when he was at the restaurant, he caused people he had seen for the first time to quit smoking within a few seconds. He would ask any such person if he wanted to give up smoking, whereupon he would implement his methodology.  
He used to deal with physical pain in the same fashion. If someone was feeling pain somewhere, he would remove it from him.  
He used to create a state of fascination we have subjected to a specific study. Some of the many anecdotes concerning his abilities as a fascinator are set out in what follows:

On one occasion, when he was by the large square of Cordusio in Milan, he held firmly to the sentence uttered by a passer-by who was around 50 years old, and who had said, ‘It is about to rain.’ Looking at him in the eyes, Di Pisa then repeatedly said to him in a firm tone of voice, ‘Open up your umbrella.’ The subject, who had precipitated into a state of confusion, vainly attempted to open it more than once, without realizing that what he was wielding in his hand was only a stick. That went on until, some thirty seconds later, Di Pisa shook him and thereby brought him back to the present time.

Again while by the streets during another rainy day, this time in Via Procaccini, he caught sight of a person who was busy walking. This subject casually threw a look behind the transparent glass window of the nearby cafeteria, and felt as if he was electrocuted. Prof. Di Pisa was fond of mentioning the fact that some subjects respond to the power of a look at once, and that he was able to identify them without any delay from their gait as well as other telling details, by virtue of the same sensibility which enabled him to formulate correct diagnoses. This specific subject who was walking by Via Procaccini fell into the said category. Not surprisingly, therefore, Erminio, from inside the cafeteria, resorted to a brusque movement by raising his hands and staring at his eyes intensely while such person was crossing the road. The subject suddenly remained motionless in the middle of the street, frozen in that condition for a good thirty seconds, until Di Pisa eventually lowered his arms.

He did not let anything intimidate him. One day, while in Piazza Cairoli, he pointed his index finger at an approaching passer-by chosen at random, whereupon he started issuing him such injunctions as, ‘Go there’ and ‘Turn that way’. The passer-by promptly carried out the said instructions in a hypnotic state, without realizing what was going on. When Di Pisa finally woke him up from that state, the person concerned no longer knew where he was. 
Di Pisa, in fact, did not limit his self to using fascination with a high level of mastery within the four walls of his study, but did so in everyday life as well. There was a time when he invited a friend of his to a cafeteria. Purely by his look, he plunged the waiter into a state of fascination which caused him to delve into an automatic state. As a result of that, the waiter mechanically began to prepare a first cup of coffee, followed by a second and a third one, placing all of them on the counter, and went on doing that non stop. It was only then that Erminio “woke him up”. The waiter had been blissfully unaware of the whole incident!
On yet a different occasion, Roberto Catalano asked him whether he, too, was able to get back as change more than what he would actually pay. Di Pisa immediately replied in the affirmative. As a bet, he handed ten thousand liras to a girl, and, looking into her eyes with an intense expression, he said to her, ‘More, more, more.’ The girl then continuously gave him change without realizing what she was doing. Eventually, Di Pisa said to her, ‘You have given me too much change’, and gave the excess sum back to her.   
This kind of fascination, followed by an automatic motion, reminds one of some of the methods the gypsies use in order to fascinate. Professor Di Pisa, however, would only use such techniques for curative purposes. He was quite ethical in his work. 
In one instance, when we were at the restaurant, he wanted to give us a live teaching of how his look worked, and we were deeply impressed by it. 
He was extremely good at the so-called post-hypnotic suggestions, which he frequently executed by using some accompanying object. 
Erminio was also well-versed in instant regressions, that is, the situations where a person would access his past in a few seconds. This is a very powerful therapeutic dynamics. His friend, Ezio F., had observed that Di Pisa’s special ability to practice “personal magnetism” nearly changed the perception of the environment.  Indeed, though Ezio F. had attended several times at Di Pisa’s study, he only noticed after the latter’s death that the study where he had been received several times by him when he was alive was different than he thought. It had a second door that Ezio F. had failed to see before at all, as it was situated near a portrait of Erminio (being the one reproduced here below), and his attention, which had always been attracted by Erminio’s power, had never memorized such an intrinsically visible detail.

Prof. Di Pisa, depicted here in a portrait given to him as a present in South Korea, where he carried out plentiful experiments of Instant Fascination

One of the most spectacular manifestations is provided by “instant fascination”. This technique has the ability to immediately eradicate physical pains, muscular tensions, headaches, tinnitus, and a whole assortment of additional ailments.
We owe this methodology to Erminio from Pisa, who was accustomed to call it “Instant Hypnosis”. He was its sole practitioner throughout Italy. Once he gave us an astounding demonstration of it in the presence of three hundred people in Milan. He did so by working on each of those persons in attendance for some twenty seconds, thereby producing results which in most cases endured through the following days, while in other instances they actually proved conclusive in their effect. In certain cases, a single intervention is enough to engender a permanent result. In other instances, it is necessary to apply the technique twice or thrice in a row, whereupon a more than highly satisfactory overall percentage of 97% of healed people will be actualized. At our institute, we keep a number of videos which corroborate what we have stated in this connection.
The methodology is rather simple. After we have caused the patient to indicate to you where he is experiencing pain, we fix him intensely so as to fascinate him, for the explicit purpose of taking him “beyond the point”, that is, beyond rigid positions and mental habits which represent the sum-total of his personal problems.
At some stage, one feels intuitively that the patient’s pain has vanished. He is then woken up by a simple rapid knock of the hand over his shoulder.
The most positive aspect of it all is that the person is feeling better!
That seems impossible to the person who is merely watching. From a technical point of view, it is, on the contrary, very natural. The pains and the other problems we have referred to represent “fixed realities”. The moment we look at the subject, we settle his attention upon some other space. We would say that we are now in direct contact with the unconscious, if we wished to borrow Erickson’s terminology. The unconscious, indeed, always works for the person’s wellbeing and in his interest.
We are not dealing here with some mere hypnotic suggestion, so much so that on some occasions (albeit rarely) it is necessary to operate two or three times before “the right moment can be grabbed”. If it had been no more than a suggestion, the third attempt would be bound to emulate what happened in the previous ones. As that is not the case, however, it means we have actually guided our patient to a new life dimension.

Prof. Di Pisa at a TV show
Our further studies
Our own Nice-based school has scientifically examined the phenomenon.
A key aspect of the look-centred therapy is letting ourselves be observed and observing in turn the patient while we give him a chance to recollect the state that caused him problems. Thereupon, we lead the person into a state of fascination without any recourse to words. Such method, indeed, allows us to transport him into a state of “non-thinking” where the symptom disappears. It is the equivalent of resetting the mind.
Within that context, for a period of time that might last more or less long, the fascinated person attains a state which is devoid of consciousness of the “ego”, that is, the totality of our mind and our automatic mental programs.
The person concerned would then be “beyond the trance”. The Fascination which is carried out on a person is indisputably something that acts at an ocular level, by creating a kind of “trance” for the subject on whom one is operating.
However, we are in a state of trance even in other situations. We might for example be captivated by objects or by persons, or even by our thoughts in which we drown. The majority of people is indeed totally gripped, “fascinated” by their own mental mechanisms. This is the reason why the same mechanisms are invariably reiterated, and why a problem is preserved and perpetuated.
By means of the look, we thus intervene in the very mechanisms which produce the “fascination” by means of ideas or concepts that beset the subject via these mechanisms themselves.
There is yet another way of proceeding: This second method consists in contacting the symptoms directly.
The process is termed by some people “curing through the symptom”. Through the patient’s total concentration on his symptom, in fact, we can carve out a path allowing us to speak to that part of the brain which generates such a symptom. We thereby give effect to a mechanism which some healers have already resorted to, namely, "utilizing the crisis as a cure" 1. What at that point facilitates the efficacy and, in particular, the rapidity of the process, is the re-enactment of the problem itself. As stated by Rossi (1986), “by asking the patient to experience the symptom (alternatively, even by increasing it, as was for instance Erickson’s wont), we are probably switching on certain processes in the right  hemisphere which are gifted with a more  immediate access to the encoding of the problem that is related to the state itself” 2.
A further scientific support for this theory and the useful benefit of re-enacting the symptom, to be immediately followed by a state of “void” where such symptom is no longer extant, being a result that can be achieved through fascination by the look, is provided by a research in the US we are going to make mention of. It is proven in this research that it is indeed possible to uproot traumas without needing to intervene through a drug, opting instead to “write once more” over such trace of the memory and erase it 3.
Published in the Nature magazine, the successful realization of that research has been achieved by Elizabeth Phelps of New York University. In an earlier study, she had successfully tested the method on a number of small mice.
It has been shown in the experiment that all one needs in order to wipe out an awfully frightening memory is by first recalling it. Thereafter, within a six hours’ time window, one writes over it a memory other than the scary one, exactly as it would happen if we were to tape over an existing recorded base. The important thing is to do it within six hours from the moment when the memory is recalled, for it is within such a time span that fear becomes entrenched again.
Anxiety disorders and post-traumatic stress are linked to bad experiences which become rooted in the mind. Whenever a certain stimulus reminds one of the experience he had gone through, fear resurfaces and anxiety grows, even though the stimulus is not dangerous per se.
Let us illustrate it with an example: If a man from Abruzzo in Italy, who had experienced the earthquake which shook that region, senses some minor readjustment shakes, it is highly probable, in spite of the fact that such negligible shakes pose no danger, that he is going to feel panic and hasten to take shelter in a tent, merely through his recollection of the tragic night of the past 6th of April.
Muscular tensions, too, are purely reminiscences of significant events which have become “embedded” in the body, in the light of the fact that a tension of the body might correspond to some mental tension.
The said study has been carried out by inducing a state of fear in some volunteers who chose to be tested. That state of fear was engineered by showing them some coloured squares and by associating with them a light electrical shock by their wrists, a shock which was merely annoying without being painful.
During the subsequent day, fear was recalled to any such patient’s mind by showing him the coloured squares once more. Thereafter, within the space of a few hours from the creation of the said stimulus, the researchers showed them the squares quite a number of times, but now without accompanying them by the electrical shock. At the end of this training, fear is removed.
The disappearance of the symptom only takes place if the action which is engaged in so as to extirpate it takes place within a short period from the moment when the patient is presented again with the scary symptom; if such symptom is not reintroduced, or if the ‘fear-erasing’ training is conducted many hours later, the volunteering patients retain a trace of the fear. Put it in other words, they retain their fear of having to see the squares again. According to the researchers, this fact is explainable on the basis that when the fear is recreated, the memory associated with it crystallizes once more, precisely at that very moment where the memory is fragile and can be removed.
It is important to observe the fact that the transcending of the ego which activates the fascination is an even more powerful tool, as it not only frees and eliminates a symptom, but, in several cases, makes room for a total rebalancing.  If we want to express it in simpler terms, we might define the therapy of the look as “the positive fascination which chases away the negative fascination derived from life experiences”.
The origin of problems
It is the fears and anxieties which are intrinsic to man that create the “negative fascination”. Man in fact possesses an ancestral fear of the unknown, which thing pushes him into creating thought mechanisms aimed at concealing and overcoming this fear. The fear, however, is still there in his underlying being. Essentially put, therefore, man, in order to try and release himself from fear, becomes captivated by external concepts. Usually, the moments in which such fascination is born are interpersonal moments. The human personality is made up of a fear to lose the objects of its own fascination.
The personality of the average man is a blend that is founded on the fear to lose one’s beloved, money, the house, etc. All the psychological categories we are able to discern grow out of some fundamental fear.
Through the medium of fascination, therefore, we give birth to a state of void in which a spontaneous self-reorganization can occur, one that is facilitated by no longer concentrating on the outside, but rather on the inside and on the operator who then turns into a resource.
Further comparisons with Eastern techniques
The usefulness of being detached from involvement and from external “fascination” is something evidenced even by the comparison between the technique of fascination and some techniques of Trataka (that is, the prolonged staring at an object without flapping one’s eyelids) which are practiced in the East in order to engender a mental void. We can observe that sometimes, in the course of such practices, an image gets crystallized, thereby allowing one to appropriate its qualities.
These practices have the further result of distancing one, even physically, from being involved with the outside. One of these techniques, for example, consists in fixing the so-called third eye. Another, preparatory technique is based on staring at one’s nose. It has been noticed by some people that, given the excessive closeness of the point thus fixed, adjustment generally proves insufficient to enable a clear vision, notwithstanding the contraction. The surrounding objects end up occupying only the peripheral part of the retina, due to the central part of the retina being already occupied. Peripheral sensations are weaker than those that are felt at the centre. In those conditions, the subject turns almost blind to the outside world, and the more the internal deflection of the eyes is increased, the more the process gains effectiveness.
The void
One might be tempted to ask why so much effort should be put on casting the outside objects out of one’s focus. It is however possible to detect a useful aspect in that endeavour. It paralyzes one’s will. It also paralyzes the attention which, if it happens to settle on one object only, is inclined to forget the others.
Through the assistance of ocular concentration, the yogi is not just able to remove the vision of external objects, but also to empty his thoughts, whereupon it becomes easy for him to meditate in the void.
In an analogous manner, when fascination is resorted to, the subject enters a state of void where an automatic rebalancing might occur, and where one can rid himself of limiting thoughts. The process is as mental as it is physical, so much so that one can fascinate even while he is standing quite far from a person.
A quantum view
And finally a quantum view of the healing process of Prof. Erminio Di Pisa.
We could use the quantum metaphor to easily describe the process. As he ask the subject to recall where he feels pain, he is doing a “measurement”; he and the subject are together observing something, and touching the point, he entangles himself with the situation.
As the subject get fascinated, he and the subject go very fast through a moment of “no thought” and “no “reality”. In this moment he/she is outside ordinary reality in the implicate level.
Here the intention get full meaning. The operator want to see the subject well. As the operator fascinates the subject there are no more two distinct realities. Both realities merge. As both come back to the ordinary reality, something got changed. Is as a stronger force manifest itself in this moment. In fact quantistically every intention is an act of creation that modifies reality. Here we see the reality changed. 
Mental attitude
This type of therapy encompasses an inward dimension as well. In order to achieve the best possible results, it is imperative that, first and foremost, your inner being should be open. Your intention plays a very important role. Your client will feel it more than ever as you are looking at him.
The following are a few simple exercises which help develop Prof. Erminio Di Pisa’s magnetic power:
1. Lie down on your back and relax your muscles completely.  
Draw in air from the nose slowly and gradually, in so doing trying to expand your abdomen as much as possible. Thereafter, hold the air you have thus inhaled for a few seconds, and breathe it out slowly. This exercise should be carried out as slowly as you can.
You will interrupt the exercise three or four times by switching to your normal mode of breathing. This exercise has the effect of de-congesting the «solar plexus», which is the hub of all kinds of emotions and impulses. After some ten days or so, timidity and dejection shall disappear.
2. In the event that you are jolted by sudden noises, such as the ring of the telephone, you should get used to control your nerves every moment of your day, and repress every unconscious motion of yours, staying still so as to prevent the nervous movement of your legs, avoiding gestures as you talk, etc.
The present exercise results in you conferring order on your nervous forces, thereby averting dissipations which are harmful to the organism.
3. Daily strive, for a quarter of an hour, to focus your thought on one thing only by consciously excluding any other one.
Etch firmly in your mind the fact that the aforesaid preparatory work has been rationally studied and combined in such a way as to enable the deep development of your hypnotic abilities.
Nothing is achieved without effort. The training demands an amount of self-straining, but at the end your endeavours shall be crowned by success.
This second series of three exercises is beneficial to one’s health. It will greatly avail whoever suffers from insomnia, neurosis or amnesia.
In addition, these exercises improve the circulation of blood and help one endure cold better.
We set out here three compound exercises aimed at securing magnetic look and positive speaking for your persons.
1. While in a half-lit room, let your look fall upon any point whatsoever, provided it is at the same level as your eyes, and stare at it intensely, without beating your eyelids, for some fifteen minutes.
You must practice this exercise on a daily basis, so that you can progressively extend its duration. 
NB: You will accomplish your goal more rapidly if, when you read or write, you refrain from beating your eyelids.
2. Every day you must read a few pages, speaking slowly as you do so and getting accustomed to stress every syllable gravely, without however straining your voice.
You should remind yourselves that an exact, energetic, firm and resolute word which is uttered properly produces very strong reactions in other people’s minds.  
3. When you are alone, place yourself in front of a mirror which is able to reflect the image of your whole person.
At that stage, verbalize a suggestive formula (e.g.: ‘Look at me in the eyes ...’).
Imagine yourself in front of a subject, and accompany what you say by gestures. Try out several possible formulas, so that you are finally able to choose the one suiting you the most.
Repeat this exercise many times, scrupulously and attentively, until you experience the sensation your action would have to produce on the subject.  
The more you attain calm and emotional control, the more it will be possible for you to reduce the number of exercises and concentrate solely on the ones you feel are most beneficial for you. Never neglect, however, the exercises based on the look and the acquisition of control over your mental chattering. Prof. Di Pisa did not stop training his look daily even after years of assiduous practice, despite being always well trained in that regard.
