OF THE
i‘filf.
The Mext Step
The inner child is not all precious
and wonderful. By grasping the
ways we continue to use the frozen
and outdated trances of survival, we
deprive ourselves of some essential
areas of human experience.
Wolinsky calls this limiting function
the "dark side of the inner child."
John Armin/3mo from the foreword
The Dark Side of the Inner Child
"AWAKENING" is a key word: It means we have
awakened from our personal vantage point or per-
spective. Everything looks totally different... to be
freed from that vantage point and awaken from that
vantage point so that you suddenly see everything
differently—and the practical application of this
awakening...is that you change.
Pir Vilayat Inayat Khan
  

The paper used in this publication meets the minimum requirements
of American National Standard for Information Sciences—
Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials,
ANSI Z39.48-1984.
The Dark Side of
the Inner Child
The Next Step
Stephen Wolinsky
BRAMBLE BOOKS
Copyright ©1993 by Stephen Wolinsky, Ph.D.  
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any manner whatever,
including information storage, or retrieval, in whole or in part (except for brief quotations
in critical articles or reviews), without written permission from the publisher.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Wolinsky, Stephen
The dark side of the inner child : the next step / Stephen Wolinsky.
p.cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 1-883647-00-2 (pbk.) : $14.95
1. Inner child. 2. Schemas (Pscyhology) 3. Schema-focused cognitive
therapy. 4. Cognitive dissonance. I. Title.
BF698.35.I55W65 1993
155.2'5—dc2093-41991
CIP
First Printing 1993  
5 7 9 10 8 6 4
DEDICATION
To the memory of John Lennon, Quantum Psychologies Poet and
Song-writer.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Kristi L. Kennen, M.S.W., Lynne Behnfield (copy editor), Donna
Ross and Bruce Carter (word processing), Eric Marcus, M.D.,
Roberto Assagioli, founder of Psychosynthesis and developer of
the concept of subpersonalities, Fritz Perls, M.D., founder of
Gestalt Therapy, for his idea of parts dialoguing with each other,
and Eric Berne, M.D., founder of Transactional Analysis and
creator of the understanding of the inner parent, inner adult, and
inner child. Also thanks to Dr. Albert Ellis, the father of Rational-
Emotive Thearpy, whose understanding of the fifteen distorted
thinking types were incorporated in this book, and to Mathew
McKay, Martha Davis, and Patrick Fanning for their book, Thoughts
and Feelings: The Art of cognitive Stress Intervention. Chapter 3 of
this book contains a summary of Dr. Albert Ellis's fifteen cognitive
distortions. Finally, special thanks to Neil Sweeny, and his memory
for his consultation, love, and friendship for almost 20 years.
The Author
Stephen H. Wolinsky, Ph.D., began his clinical practice in Los
Angeles, California in 1974. A Gestalt and Reichian therapist and
trainer, he led workshops in Southern California. He was also
trained in Classical Hypnosis, Psychosynthesis, Psychodrama/Psy-
chomotor, and Transactional Analysis. In 1977 he journeyed to
India, where he lived for almost six years studying meditation. He
moved to New Mexico in 1982 to resume a clinical practice. There
he began to train therapists in Ericksonian Hypnosis, N.L.P. and
family therapy. Dr. Wolinsky also conducted year-long trainings
entitled: Integrating Hypnosis with Psychotherapy, and Integrating
Hypnosis with Family Therapy. Dr. Wolinsky is the author of
Trances People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychol-
ogyQ and Quantum Consciousness: The Guide to Experiencing
Quantum Psychology® (Bramble Books). He has just completed
his fourth book, The Tao of Chaos: Essence and the Enneagram,
Quantum Consciousness, Volume H. He is the co-developer of
Quantum SeminarsTM and the founder of Quantum Psychology®.
Along with Kristi L. Kennen, M.S.W., he founded the first Quan-
tum Psychology Institute®. Dr. Stephen Wolinsky presently resides
in Capitola, California, and can be reached at (831) 464-0564 or
FAX (831) 479-8233
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
        u!souuly
  
        5umiezia aoueu
  
Tsui 5uppo :umsnj-uop
  
alma J0N si wqm 5uHo0d
pug 2upeoli ‘&1!a0s
  
antli sI P1uM guRoS 1ON :lno t‘113130TEI
  
peal{ inoA u! SOOIOA:on2oma Jouui
  
1110 pue pounoA
wag oimdos guIpod :uopoouuop-sm
  
5umirand
  
noA uutu, Jo2unoA 5upov
:uo!ssoi5ow
  
oouvii Jo suppo puR Agclosollqd
        Pimp Jouui am JO  
ams P'U zip JO pug otp JO ti!uupoti
  
  
  
NAT J0,4 ur5zEI ITV II amilAk
________________
  

6 IgNIND
8 Joldeqj
L Jouleu
JaldeqD
S Joldeqj
mcluto
E Jaiduto
MdutID
I JaldmID
on5oicud
ruomaiod
swam° fo arm


Foreword
I welcome the opportunity to write this forward for Dr. Stephen
Wolinsky's The Dark Side of the Inner Child. This book further
attests to the seriousness of inner child work. It offers some
important clarifications with regard to the tendency to "reify"
certain aspects of inner child work. Dr. Wolinsky has helped me
understand my own work more precisely.
For a number of years I've been impressed with the transform-
ing "power" of the inner child model. Yet I never fully understood
why it makes such an impact. Wolinsky's earlier work Trances
People Live, which identifies certain childhood survival tactics as
hypnotic trances, made it clear to me that the reason we stay frozen
in the past is because we keep recreating the trances which defend
us from the hurt and pain of our childhood losses. The "delayed
grief" apropos of these losses manifests itself in a set of symptoms
which have been called the "adult child syndrome".
Dr. Wolinsky shows clearly that since we created the defending
trances, we can change them once we are aware of how we're
continuing to create them. What I have called reclaiming the inner
child is a way to dehypnotize oneself. By imagining ourselves
embracing our vulnerability in the form of a little child, our adult
self takes charge of a trance that originally protected us, but now
limits us. What I called championing the child is a way to live in the
present moment, by consciously changing the ways we have been
rejecting our own childhood feelings, needs, and wants.
In The Dark Side of the Inner Child, Wolinsky offers us a
x
variety of ways to become aware of how we are creating the
defensive trances that constitute the frozen states of the inner child.
I have stressed the essential role of one' s adult self in reintegrat-
ing the experiences of the past. Wolinsky speaks of the "witnessing
self." The adult in my model and the witnessing self are roughly
equivalent. The adult of witnessing self is the one who created the
trances in the first place. The witnessing self is the I of I or the you
of you.
When we grasp that we are the true source of our own frozen
life, an empowering enlightenment takes place and adult responsi-
bility follows.
Wolinsky's work thus serves the important task of safeguard-
ing the regressive tendencies inherent in inner child work. For
whether we intend to are not, there is an ever present temptation to
"objectify" the inner child so that the various states of childhood
being are given a kind of functional autonomy. Once this happens,
the "inner child" is idealized and becomes an end in itself. With
Wolinsky's work, there can be no confusion on this point.
The inner child is not all precious and wonderful. By grasping
the ways we continue to use the frozen and outdated trances of
survival, we deprive ourselves of some essential areas of human
experience. These areas include behaviors like curiosity, question-
ing, resiliency, exuberance, and spontaneity. Wolinsky calls this
limiting function the "dark side of the inner child" . We need our
feelings of curiosity, spontaneity, and exuberance. We need the
ability to question and be resilient. These are not just childhood
traits, they are human traits, essential to fully functioning human
beings. By consciously choosing to reform our childhood strategies
for survival (the trances of the inner child), we can gain access to
emotions which comprise our "delayed grief' and fully experience
them. This allows us to integrate these crucial functions into our
experiences, making us more fully present to live our own lives.
I don't want to expound on the text any further because I hope
you will want to read it yourself. I have found a very rich and
creative body of material in the chapters which follow. You may
find it tough going at times, and I urge you to hang in there. The
mental stretch has been well worth the effort for me.
I want to thank Dr. Wolinsky for his commitment to expand our
consciousness. He brings together a syntheses of the most profound
XI
Eastern and Western thinking. In an age that is ravished by self-
serving polarizations, Wolinsky is a most welcome teacher.
John Bradshaw


• Prologue  
Woman, I know you understand ...the little child inside of
the man.
"Woman" John Lennon
In 1985 I made a discovery that culminated in my first book,
Trances People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychol-
ogy. In it I describe the trance phenomenon involved in problem
states. I show how trance is the means by which symptoms are
created and maintained and become a source of pathology as they
are integrated in our habitual mode of response to the world. Most
important, I explain how we can de-hypnotize ourselves and re-
claim the true self.
The response to the book has been sensational, yet I feel a more
experiential, practical, and user-friendly version is needed. That
book was directed to the therapist; this is for the general public as
well as the therapeutic community.
About the Inner Child
As I wrote in my earliest book, the trance process can often
times be traced back to childhood experiences of trauma. The
observer creates trance states in childhood and uses them to help in
buffering the child against the experiences they are not able to
2 4, The Dark Side of the inner Child
integrate. In other words, trances often start as a necessary means of
surviving and negotiating the physical universe.
Yet what was a survival strategy for an overwhelmed child
attempting to cope with chaos becomes the core of symptom
structure for the coping adult. Not to be confused with the so-called
precious inner child now so popular in therapeutic circles, this is a
wounded inner child stuck at a particular point in time.
The words inner child have drawn much fire from different
schools of psychotherapy. Actually, to clarify, the inner child
concept is not new. In the Psychosynthesis of Roberto Assagioli, he
talks of subpersonalities. In the Gestalt Therapy of Fritz Perls, he
developed the experience of having different parts dialoguing with
one another, the work of Eric Berne, M.D., called Transactional
Analysis, developed not only the inner child, but the inner adult, and
the inner parent. In discussing the cognitive therapy of Dr. Albert
Ellis, Aaron Beck, M.D. talks of a similar concept called Schemas.
A second major concept in the cognitive model consists of
the concept of Schemas. The concept is used to explain why
a depressed patient maintains his pain-inducing and self-
defeating attitudes despite objective evidence of positive
factors in his life.
Any situation is composed of a plethora of stimuli. An
individual selectively attends to specific stimuli, combines
them in a pattern and conceptualizes the situation. Al-
though different persons may conceptualize the same
situation in different ways, a particular person tends to be
consistent in his response to similar types or events. Rela-
tively stable cognitive patterns form the basis for the
regularity of interpretations of a particular set of situations.
The term Schema designates these stable cognitive pat-
terns.
When a person faces a particular circumstance, the Schema
related to the circumstance is activated. The Schema is the
basis for molding data into cognitions (defined as any
ideation with verbal or pictorial content). Thus a Schema
constitutes the basis for screening out, differentiating, and
Prologue + 3
coding stimuli that confront the individual. He categorizes
and evaluates his experiences through a matrix of Schemas.
The kinds of Schemas employed determine how an indi-
vidual will structure different experiences. A Schema may
be inactive for long periods of time but can be energized by
specific environmental inputs (for example, stressful situ-
ations). The schemas activated in a specific situation directly
determine how an individual responds. (B eck, 1979:12-13)
The world view of the child is time frozen, unbeknownst to the
adult (this is a Schema). The adult in present time is, in effect,
hypnotized by the wounded inner child's schema and reacts auto-
matically, so that life is not experienced as it is in the present
moment, but rather as it was in the past. It is the resistance to an event
that keeps the memory of the event stuck in ones consciousness. The
father of Cognitive Therapy, Dr. Albert Ellis says, "the child tells
itself that certain bad events must not occur. . . which keeps recreat-
ing them. . to use your terminology , the child traumatizes itself. . ."
(Albert Ellis, a personal letter). Therefore, whether we call it the
inner child schema, inner child subpersonality, the inner child parts,
or the inner child false self, we are talking about a time-frozen
position which acts as a way the child within views experiences and
interprets the outer world.
The Inner Child
In reality, just as there are numerous subpersonalities, false
selves or schemas that are constructed, we can also say there is not
just one inner child. Rather there are numerous inner children, each
with a different perception, a different awareness, a different world
view, etc. (See Illustration #1, page 4).
This is, therefore, an inner child with a dark side; rather than
being just precious, it has a dysfunctional shadow side. One of the
purposes of this book is to get the reader in touch with that frozen,
inner-child memory that keeps creating problems by filtering real-
ity through outmoded, limited, and distorted lenses.
4 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
  

Not one inner child or SchemaMany inner children or Schema
Illustration #1
This illustration shows a picture of not one, but many inner children.
Conventional professional therapy would try to change the
inner child's view, to re-frame it, "complete" its unfinished busi-
ness, or "champion" it. In psychotherapy, a client might present a
frozen memory-like picture in his or her mind of a parent doing
something abusive to him/her. The therapist might then ask the
client to "miniaturize" him/herself and "go into" the picture to re-
experience the trauma and all its attendant pain and suffering. Many
Prologue :
therapies would at that point introduce a new belief, for example,
"It's okay to trust men," or, "People do love me."
The intention of these therapies is to "heal the inner child."
What I propose is dramatically different.
Quantum Psychology
The first tenet of Quantum Psychology is that subjective,
internal reality is observer-created. You, as the observer of a
trauma, take a picture of it, hold it, merge with it, go to sleep,
and then go on the same tape-loop ride over and over again.
Quantum Psychology says that you, (the observer), hold and
create the inner-child memory in response to a trauma. To
clarify, the observer does not create the outer event. The ob-
server creates it's response to the outer event. Therefore, the
observer, who has fallen asleep and fused with the memory, must
be awakened so that the memory can be let go of by the ob-
server.
That picture that is given the power is a memory that you (the
observer) are holding. It' s an old movie that you re-run again and
again causing the old feelings and experiences to be felt over and
over. In my work, rather than empowering an inner child or
memory, we empower you, the one who observes and holds the
memory in place. According to Albert Ellis, "It is your must that the
memory must not have existed that is given the real power, not the
picture itself' (Ellis, personal letter). Here, I would say it is the
observer who holds the memory in place by resisting the memory.
Ellis thinks, however, that the primary glue that holds the memory
in place is the must not have occurred thought.
In the process presented here, you learn to identify what the
inner child is doing so hte observer can awaken and stop identifying
with those old trances. This enables you to begin to identify with the
observer you that is free of trances. This frees you from the
wounded inner child that is stuck, so you can live fully in present
time.
This book is about going beyond the trances, outdated strategies
and belief structures created in childhood to cope with the chaos of
life. The text is full of examples and exercises to help you identify
and free yourself from the trances operating in your life that are
6 4. The Dark Side of the Inner Child
preventing you from being who you really are. The exercises are
also designed to help professionals work with their clients in
accomplishing these same goals.
Although this is not the total focus of the book, it is important
to state again that there is not just one wounded inner child. Rather,
with each perceived trauma, the observer creates a strategy (trance)
and an identity to manage the perceived chaos. Hence, within the
adult there can be numerous inner children, each with a trance, a
strategy, and an identity. This accounts for the numerous internal
arguments that occur within an adult. They are the wounded inner
children, each with an identity, each with a trauma and memory,
each with a trance strategy, and each with an agenda. This explains
why in therapy the entire resolution of problems does not occur once
the inner child is located and "labeled." A new inner child pops up,
hypnotizing the adult into another problem state using a must not
have occurred thought.
This book is about going beyond the dark side of the inner child,
and the trances of the inner child. To awaken the observerIcreator
of the inner child is to end the trances of the inner child. In other
words, awakening the observer ends the trance. Stated another way,
to transcend the frozen states of the inner child you must end your
trances. This is the real process of trance-ending.. I hope you enjoy
the process.
With love,
Your brother,
Stephen
• 1  
Where it All
Began for Me
For almost six years, I lived in a monastery in India. Before that,
I conducted a private psychotherapy and training practice in Los
Angeles, California. While in India it became apparent to me that
meditation could be seen as an Eastern way of de-hypnotizing
myself from my mental program, i.e., thoughts, feelings, and
emotions.
By de-hypnotizing myself I no longer felt compelled nor
obsessed by the never ending chatter of the mind.
A New Understanding of
Trances and Hypnosis
Some people feel that trance and hypnosis are similar to the
Svengali Phenomenon, in which the subject is overpowered and
instructed to do something against his/her will, by an outside power
8 *The Dark Side of the Inner Child
or person. Sometimes hypnosis is thought of as a state resembling
sleep, induced by a hypnotizer, who makes suggestions readily
accepted by the subject. "Trance" is defined by Webster's as
"a state of partly suspended animation or inability to
function, a state of prolonged absorption." (American
College Dictionary, Random House, New York, 1963:1285)
From my years of psycho-spiritual inner work, it became clear
to me that we are all already in a trance, already hypnotized. Most
of us think "trances" exclude our daily experience, but actually they
engulf our every experience. Within the mystery of hypnosis or
trance lies the key to de-hypnosis.
What will follow are examples and histories of everyday people
being "entranced."
A child is the subject, the mom and dad the hypnotists. The
parents make suggestions like "You're not going to make it,"
"Please me and I'll please you," or "Do what I say and give you
love and approval; don't and I won't." The child (subject) goes into
a trance, a state of absorption, and believes the suggestions that the
hypnotists (parents) make. The child then internalizes these sugges-
tions and continues to suggest them as a grown adult. This is the
dark side of the inner child, the inner child of the past hypnotizing
the present time adult into problem states.
As years go on, perhaps a teacher or another authority figure
merely mentions the similar suggestion (induction), and the subject
(student) goes into the same "fear" trance that happened as a child.
Time goes on. The child matures, enters into relationships, and
marries. Then the spouse can become the hypnotist, putting the
inner child of their spouse in an anger trance or a fear of rejection
trance.
Once the suggestions are made and the individual moves into a
trance, the subject's autonomy as a free being behind these trance
states is lost.
In our culture we all go in and out of trance states, and each of
us acts as both hypnotist and subject, through most of our relation-
ships.
The purpose of this book is to awaken the you behind the trance,
so that problems that are caused by trance states no longer can occur.
Self-hypnosis and trance happen daily. If you notice the move-
Where It All Began for Me + 9
meet of the mind, you are continually offering suggestions to
yourself about how to be, what to do, and what to have.
For example, you might suggest to yourself in your relation-
ship, "He really loves me," creating a relaxed "He really loves me"
trance. You might suggest to yourself, "She never gives me what I
want," creating an angry trance. You might suggest to yourself, "I
know what that (boss) wants; he wants to "cheat me," creating a
self-righteous trance.
All of these tapes are played by the inner child within the adult.
The child within takes on the voices and suggestions of parents, and
years later the child within the adult hypnotizes the adult.
How does this occur? Generally, we create trances as children
to handle situations that we think we cannot handle nor understand.
Albert Ellis would say, "We create profound musturbatory beliefs
about many instances." (Ellis, personal letter) The ones we decide
we must not, should not or can not handle. These musts act as
cognitive glue which hold our resistance to incoming situations or
circumstances. This must not thinking tendency greatly influences
our subjective experience, and Dr. Albert Ellis calls this tendency,
jokingly, musturbation.
For example, A child of an overbearing parent will disconnect
from the situation to avoid the emotional pain. If the strategy works,
the child puts the trance on "automatic." He finds himself dis-
connecting and daydreaming through school, work, and eventually
in relationships.
A child who has a history of alcoholism and co-dependence in
the family might exhibit amnesia, forget the past to avoid the pain.
Later in life amnesia or forgetfulness might become a problem in
work, school, or relationships.
An incest survivor who went "numb" to survive the painful
trauma may experience difficulty feeling sensations during sexual
experiences. Women may have an inability to have an orgasm. Men
could suffer from premature ejaculation or impotency.
It must be understood that the trance a child created is actually
an ability or skill that was developed to handle painful situations.
The problem occurs when the ability to create a trance gets out of
control, and the individual finds himself reacting automatically.
The trance of the child within the adult automatically creates the
same state of numbness even though the adult might not want to be
10 • The Dark Side of the inner Child
numb in the present-time relationship. All this occurs while the
observer sleeps.
For example, a woman I worked with was so badly spanked by
her father that from the waist down she was numb. This affected her
sexual relationship with her husband. She could not feel "sexual"
sensations, and had an inability to achieve orgasm.
A psychologist I saw for therapy is another example. He had
had an incestuous relationship with his sister. Years later in his
marriage, the child within his adult world "went numb." The
presenting problem: the ability to have an erection.
If you experience yourself reacting emotionally or verbally on
"automatic," you might be experiencing an hypnotic trance sug-
gested by the child within the adult. The child within hypnotizes the
child by automatically saying things to you that make you go into
a trance. You behave in ways you would rather not, or you may go
into a trance that worked under trauma in the past, but is not
appropriate for the present-time situation.
The child within becomes your hypnotist, and the adult in
present time, the subject, continues getting hypnotized into un-
wanted behaviors and experiences.
After returning to the West in 1982, I re-opened my psycho-
therapy practice. I began to explore with my clients and trainees
therapeutic trance states. I realized that many problems individuals
were experiencing were due to the child within hypnotizing the
adult. The inner child had developed an autonomous life of its own,
a dark side.
I began to de-hypnotize myself. I realized that hours of medi-
tation was not appropriate for this culture; it is just too time
consuming. The pitfalls meditators experienced in the past resulted
from not being connected to the world. And often times, as will be
noted in Chapter 6, Dis-connecting, meditation can become a
dissociative technique, used to hide a trauma and its accompanying
fear, pain, and anger.
I was interested in developing a system that incorporates both
(a) the ability to de-hypnotize oneself while (b) staying connected
to life. To do this I incorporated a major concept of quantum
physics: the observer of an internal experience is also participating
in the internal subjective creation of that experience. In my earlier
work, Quantum Consciousness, this was explored in depth. In
Where It All Began for Me 4, 11
essence, the observer of a trauma creates his/her response to the
trauma. This often creates a wounded, traumatized child who uses
trance states like "going numb" to survive.
The child within me had erected strategies to handle life
situations. The problem was that the child within my adult self was
creating internal experiences outside my awareness that did not fit
my present-time reality.
A system of self-awareness began to evolve for me. I began to
feel free of unwanted behaviors and emotions that had been sug-
gested by the child within the adult.
Later chapters take an in-depth look at the trances of the inner
child, the time frozen creation and identity within the adult. This
inner child, which has received so much praise for so long, is a time
frozen creation of the observer, you. The problem is that the time
frozen inner child keeps creating unwanted trances, i.e., thoughts,
feelings, emotions, sensations and strategies that no longer fit
present-time situations.
Conclusion
The next step is to dismantle time-frozen, inner-child trances
and realize that the individual is the observer and creator of this
time-frozen inner-child identity. The purpose is to free ourselves
from childhood survival mechanisms that no longer fit present-time
relationships. The next step has three parts, 1) to acknowledge the
dark side of the inner child which acts as a hypnotist in our present
time self, 2) to look at this inner child identity, and release it from
our present time reality, and 3) to awaken the observer (you), who
has fallen asleep. This enables us to step out of our time-frozen past
and step into being present in present time.


.2  
The Beginning of the
End of the Dark Side of
the Inner Child
The recent emergence and popularity of therapies and self-help
groups based on working on or with the "wounded inner child" has
taken over the world of psychology. Historically speaking, how-
ever, most therapies have spoken directly to this part of ourselves
that remains in past time, or was frozen in past time through trauma
or mishap since psychotherapy became popular at the turn of the
century.
More recently, since the 1960s, our psyches have been bom-
barded by therapies whose intention is to heal, re-frame, re-decision,
talk to, re-associate, re-name, complete the unfinished business of,
and most recently to champion the wounded inner child.
This precious inner child, as he/she has most recently been
called is some wounded part of ourselves that needs to be healed.
Somehow, and for some reason, two aspects of this paradigm have
14 * The Dark Side of the Inner Child
been left out. First, the source of the wounded inner child, and
second, the dark side of the inner child.
Where did the Inner Child Come From?
To best understand where the inner child came from it is
probably important to touch one of the most significant under-
standings of science. In the mid-1920s, noted physicist Werner
Heisenberg developed his "Uncertainty Principle." Heisenberg,
turned the world of physics around when he proved that the
observer of the experiment and the experiment were not sepa-
rate but in fact, the observer through the act of observation
participated and influenced the outcome of the experiment. John
Wheeler, another noted physicist changed the word observer to
participator, because the act of observation participated in the
outcome of the experiment.
What does this mean in self-help psychology talk? That you, as
the observer of life, participate in how you construct, interpret and
experience your internal subjective world. The observer of an
experiment participates in the creation of it's outcome through the
act of observation. You, as the participator in a workshop on the
inner child, create its appearance through the act of observation.
What does this mean? By looking for the inner child, you recreate
it through the act of "looking." It appears that the wounded inner
child was always there, unnoticed. But, according to quantum
physics, we create an inner child identity that needs to be healed
through the act of "looking." The important thing to note at this
stage of the book is that you (the observer) came before and are
senior to the inner child identity. What I mean by this is that the
observer existed before a trauma, the same observer was there
during the trauma, and the same observer is there after the trauma
ended. The inner child I-dentity is the cause of many of your
present-time problems. Why? The wounded inner child you have
participated in creating has a life-force of it's own, and limits your
scope and perspective of the world and yourself. Furthermore, this
observer-created identity creates behavioral inevitabilities like
failure, break-up, or emotional distress. What we will focus on are
the strategies, trances, or games, the dark side of the inner child
plays, that effect your life. And, how to take the next step and
The Beginning of the End of Inner Child 46 15
awaken the observer and dismantle this past memory that acts as a
window we look through in present time.
In the 1970s and 1980s, all of us saw the unparalleled everyday
use of the word "quantum." From television shows to chemical
corporations, quantum became a household world.
In 1986, my first book, Trances People Live: Healing Ap-
proaches in Quantum Psychology, talked of the impact of the
observer (you) upon your subjective experience. In a nutshell, the
observer (you), creates his/her internal subjective experience. You
create a response to the environment, i.e., parents, teachers, hus-
bands, wives, etc., and you are responsible for your internal,
subjective experiences. To put this in Quantum Psychology terms,
you, as the observer of external reality, participate in the creation
of your internal, subjective responses and reactions.
Now, let's take this in the realm of the "wounded inner child
identity." Let's say at a young age, you observed that the only way
to get loved by Mom/Dad was to give up your own needs in favor
of theirs and to please them. To handle this the observer creates an
identity called "pleasing child" who gives up his/her own needs to
gain love and approval. If the observer sees that this works, the
observer continues to create this identity and places this identity of
wounded pleasing child on automatic and then goes to sleep. Who
is lost in this mistaken identity? You, the observer and creator of this
pleasing wounded child identity.
This identity now creates many different ways (which will be
discussed later) to keep this process alive. Three important points
come from this quantum understanding: (1) you are the creator and
observer of the wounded pleasing child, (2) you are beyond this
identity, and (3) "healing" this wounded child is a false concept.
Why? In order to heal this identity you must "get" that you are the
source of this identity. Once you get the experiential understanding
of this, you can take responsibility for creating it and stop creating
it.
To try to heal, say the "right things" to, re-frame, or re-decide
the inner child only adds to the created identity and keeps it alive.
In other words, you must keep the identity present and functioning
in order to heal it. Many therapies imply, "All parts serve a useful
purpose." Quantum Psychology says, "All parts served a useful
purpose" (past tense). Why keep creating them automatically? It is
16 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
time to take the next step and dismantle this old world view.
Last month, I was invited to give a presentation to a group of
about forty psychotherapists on the East Coast. I asked the group,
"Have any of you healed, or know anyone who has healed the
wounded inner child?" There was no response. What we must find
out is who is observing this inner child. In this way you the
observer is empowered rather than the inner child.
I said to the group, "Once you create a wounded child identity
and decide to heal it by creating some other identity to say the right
things to, combat it, re-assure it or champion it, you (the observer/
creator) must always keep the wounded inner child identity in your
psyche so that you know what it is that needs to be healed. In order
to take the next step and go beyond the inner child you must know
its' dark side. My Indian teacher, Nisargadatta Maharaj, would say,
"First, you must know what something is in order to give it up."
The Dark Side of the Inner Child
I imagine many people would argue about the precious inner
child, its value, its innocence, etc. At this time we need to under-
stand that this "inner child" has a dark side. This inner child that
some therapies are trying desperately to preserve is responsible for
many present time problems.
For example, let' s imagine in order to survive with Mom/Dad,
you had to create a part that would mind read what Mom/Dad were
thinking, so that you could get what you needed. The problem arises
when the frozen child within your mind reads, projects and imag-
ines what people are thinking and feeling in present time and tries
to fulfill the imagining, or reacts to that imagined projection as if it
were true.
Very often it is not true. The dark side of the inner child
hypnotizes the adult into reacting to present time as if it were past
time. This is what I call the dark side. It is the wounded inner child
who mis-interprets, misconstrues, and misunderstands much of
what it sees. To worship a precious inner child is to ignore its dark
side.
The Beginning of the End of Inner Child + 17
Conclusion
This book will help individuals and therapists take the next step
and (1) de-construct the inner child through understanding its
strategies, and (2) return an individual to the source of his/her
experience rather than referencing old experiences that no longer
serve a useful purpose.


•3  
Philosophy and
Origins of Trance
This work represents an integration of Western Psychotherapy,
Eastern Philosophy and Quantum Physics that has grown from my
experience as a therapist. I have found that Western ideas such as
those of Milton H. Erickson, M.D., the father of modern hypnosis,
complement Eastern concepts of the observer and the understand-
ings that developed in quantum physics, specifically by Werner
Heisenberg.
Throughout this book I refer to all states of consciousness
(other than the uninterrupted awareness of the observer) as a trance
state. The following chapters will demonstrate that the created,
time-frozen I-dentity of the inner child has certain games, strategies
and thought processes. The child inside each one of us has been
frozen through trauma and chaos. This can be likened to a photog-
rapher with a video camera holding his/her finger on the pause
button. We are stuck with a window through which we are seeing
the world, or better yet, not seeing the present-time world. The dark
side of the wounded child 1-dentity becomes our nemesis, when it
20 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
shrinks the observers' present-time world, making it look like a
past-time experience. In other words, the observer goes to sleep,
and unknowingly looks through the inner child world view.
Trance can be defined as wakeful sleep. In the beginning trance
occurs through a series of interactions with other people like Mom,
Dad, a teacher, and even a boss, friends, husbands, wives, children,
etc. The trance you designed had a purpose to maintain, protect, or
support you as a child. The trance became an automatic response to
other people, and developed an autonomy of its own.
Stated another way, a child relates to the family in a particular
way. This is the trance the child uses in that family. As the child gets
older, the trance (a) generalizes to all people or all women rather
than Mom, so that the adult behaves like a little boy or girl around
women, and (b) since it worked so well as a child, years later the
observer puts the trance on automatic so the adult doesn't think
about how to react anymore.
In this way a situation is not experienced as it is. Rather the
adult, acting like a child, takes the family with him, inside, in present
time, projecting it outward on others, or keeping it inside (talking to
him/herself). The trance of the dark side of the inner child acts
independent of present time and is the vehicle or messenger of the
child within the adult. Once the inner child is frozen, it tends to
shrink the focus of attention of the adult so as to produce inevitable
feelings, thoughts, emotions, and for the most part, discomfort.
Trance is the major glue that holds problems together. The inner
child stuck in an abusive situation might disconnect from Father, so
he/she doesn't have to feel the pain of the situation. The child is
frozen by the observer (you) along with the trance of disconnection.
(Disconnection is called "dissociation" and will be discussed more
completely in Chapter 6.)
When the observer fuses with the inner child, resources that
could be used feel unavailable. Example: A spouse in an anger
trance, throwing a tantrum at a partner, does not have the resource
of remembering how much she/he loves the spouse. Rather the age-
regressed inner child acts "as if" she/he were in past time with Dad.
The anger trance takes the driver' s seat, and the rest of the resources
of present time are not there.
Any change in the trance allows the otherwise unutilized
resource to become available to the observer. In other words, the
Philosophy and Origins of Trance21
more you know the dark side of the inner child, the freer you become
to give it up. In the above example, if the trance is allowed and both
people can stay in present time by seeing the tantrum as a trance of
the inner child, new choices and options can emerge in their
relationship.
Trances that are created by you are initially a mutual trance in
the family. For example, a woman who saw me for therapy found
that when she acted stupid in her family, Dad (a man) would take
care of her. Her inner child had a dark side that had a "stupid" trance,
which became a problem as an adult when the men she attracted
treated her as though she were stupid. This process confused her.
Though she was a powerful businesswoman, she was attracted to
men who treated her as stupid.
What really occurred? The time-frozen little girl within her was
choosing men, and was attracted to men, who were like Dad while
the observer slept. This attraction was actually the attraction that the
dark side of the inner child had. Outside of her awareness, the inner
child' s dark side was choosing men like Dad, which, in present time,
had nothing to do with men she would be interested in.
Sometimes she would find herself going into a "stupid" trance
and kick herself later for acting that way. This became the target of
de-hypnosis in her therapy. Allowing the observer to de-hypnotize,
observe, and awaken from a deep sleep, she saw a child identity that
she had created in the past. This enabled her to emerge from a cloudy
night into the open air and sunshine of choice. To de-hypnotize is
to awaken to see the you behind the trance. You are not the child
within. The child within is a re-created memory of the observer.
As mentioned above, the observer automatically recreates
child-like states of consciousness from the past, as trance states in
the present. It is important to understand the function and role of
these trance states, which are used by the time-frozen inner child,
and, to appreciate the you behind the inner child. My purpose is to
discuss trances and the methods of moving beyond and through
them so that you can experience the you behind those trances. My
primary intent is to define trance and demonstrate how all of us,
when problems arise, are in hypnotic states of mind, trance states.
This book contains many techniques of de-hypnosis for remov-
ing your "daily trance." You have created an inner child who now
hypnotizes your adult into believing you are this or that. You might
22 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
believe you are stupid, unattractive, unsucceessful. All of these
trances come from the dark side of the child within.
Trance states are related to the flow of consciousness. They are
states that are halts, distortions, and restrictions. Trance requires a
shrinking of the focus of attention yielding symptomatic states of
consciousness, or what are commonly called limitations and prob-
lems. To de-hypnotize is to shift from a trance state of shrunken or
contracted feeling to the expanded experience of being an observer!
creator, thus freeing yourself.
Over the past several years, I have continued to notice in my
clinical practice that all symptoms my clients present have at least
one trance associated with them. Stated another way, it has become
very obvious that, in order for a problem to remain a problem, there
must be at least one trance that the inner child's dark side uses like
glue to hold the problem state together. The inner child identity
sticks like glue to you, the observer, preventing you from experienc-
ing present-time reality. Without the trance the symptom could not
repeat itself again and again in different situations.
As I began to define the trances of the dark side of the inner
child, my task with my clients became one of de-hypnosis, or
awakening the creator/observer from a deep trance or spell of
which clients were unaware.
Let me give a few, everyday examples. Anxiety is a fear of
the future. A client whose presenting problem is anxiety goes
into the trance of futurizing (see Chapter 5). The inner child
imagines a catastrophic future and so hypnotizes the adult in
present time into a fear trance. Of course, an adult hears the self-
talk of the inner child' s dark side, "It will never work out" (Inner
Dialogue, Chapter 7), followed by an inability to see other
options (Chapter 8, Blocking-Out). The dark side of the inner
child might suggest to the adult that these isn't enough time,
creating even more anxiety. Maybe he even imagines a bill
collector taking away his house (Illusioning, Chapter 9). The
presenting problem, anxiety, is full of trances, as are all prob-
lems. Most are re-creations of the dark side of the inner child.
The inner child continues autonomously, with the adult experi-
encing past situations as present situations.
Another example is an alcoholic client who, as the session
continued, began to age-regress (act younger, see Chapter 4). I
Philosophy and Origins of Trance + 23
insisted she keep continuous eye contact with me during the
process. Quite suddenly, she couldn't see me; she fogged me out. I
realized that as a child, in order for her to create distance and
survive, she had to not see her parents. In order for her problem
(alcoholism) to continue, the dark side of the inner child had to
maintain a trance, changing her relationship to the present-time
world. She had to change from self-to-the-world in present time to
a trance, child-to-parents in past time.
Although she fogged out her parents' drinking, in order to not
see it, another dissociated part of her saw it. Although part of her
was hiding in the fog, another part saw the drinking. This is the
power of dissociation in action. The observer/creator of the trance
state holds and takes a picture of the fog and the drinking. Years
later, the child within the adult had two sides: fogger/drinker.
More simply put, the observer took a picture of the little girl
watching her parents drinking. To handle that, the little girl fogged
out her parents drinking so she did not have to experience what was
occurring. By having her hold eye contact with me in the therapeutic
process, she went into the little girl within the adult who had fogged
out to survive. What "popped up " was the memory of her parents
drinking ( the other side of the inner child). As will be discussed
later, the processes by which I got her to stop fogging out de-
hypnotized her, so in her life she no longer fogged out automatically,
and was no longer in denial about her parents drinking.
The glue which held the drinking was the trance I call "blocking
out," or not seeing what is there. I began to stop the blocking by
suggesting that the child within see transparency, opaqueness,
translucency, colors in the fog. (See "Blocking Out" Chapter 8.)
Since the dark side of the inner child could no longer follow the
path of blocking out as part of her "frozen pattern," she could no
longer continue the child-like drinking trance in present time.
As I watch my clients closely, I note the trances their inner child
is using, as the glue that holds their problems. As each trance is
released, the problem loses the ability to repeat itself.
It is my purpose to outline in this book many of the concepts and
ideas that have come clear to me over the past 20 years working with
clients, so that people can take the next step; de-hypnotize their own
inner child, put it to rest, and move on in their lives. I am proposing
a model of "recovered," rather than "in recovery" for a lifetime. By
24 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
understanding the dark side of the inner child and the trances the
inner child uses, there is an opportunity to identify problem trance
states and de-hypnotize from unwanted behaviors, emotions, or
feelings.
Conclusion
Understanding that trances are the glue of problems affords an
opportunity to explore, define, and spot your own trances and the
trances of others. This book is a practical guide for self-explorers to
handle their trances and the dark side of the inner child.
The chapters that follow explore in depth 10 typical trances
lived and invoked by the inner child.
•4  
Age Regression:
Acting Younger
Than You Are
I was dreaming of the past
and my heart was beating fast,
I began to lose control
I began to lose control...
I was feeling insecure
You don't love me anymore
I was shivering inside
I was shivering inside
I didn't mean to hurt you
I'm sorry that I made you cry
I didn't mean to hurt
I'm just a jealous guy.
"Jealous Guy," John Lennon
26 * The Dark Side of the Inner Child
In this song from the Imagine album, Lennon talks of two
trances. First, he shifted from being an adult in present time to being
a wounded child in past time. Secondly, he didn't lose control;
rather, he became the inner child who was frozen, lost control and
was shivering, scared, and jealous. Lennon could have called the
song "Jealous Wounded Child" rather than "Jealous Guy", because,
in order to feel the feelings, he had to become the inner child
(dreaming of the past) and age regress (become younger than he
was).
Isn't this a familiar process for us all? Our partner looks a
certain way, and suddenly we are drenched in a sea of emotions.
This is the dark side of the inner child, an automatic response
pattern, which overwhelms us, making the present look like the
past.
Age regression, or feeling younger than you are, is the corner-
stone of the wounded child identity. Here, the observer takes a
picture of a traumatic incident and holds that picture (memory) of
this little child going through a trauma. The picture records the look,
the pain, the feelings. Whenever anything resembles the picture, the
dark side of the inner child takes over, reproducing memories and
feelings that have little to do with present time reality. In short, the
dark side of the inner child projects the past incident onto the present
situation.
Age regression is the most widely experienced trance and
relates directly to a time frozen experience that was uncomfortable
and too confusing or chaotic for the child to experience and
integrate completely; hence, the observer resisted the experience,
causing the memory of what occurred to freeze. This experience of
being "stuck" in a past place or point in one' s personal history is the
inner child' s stuckness, not the present-time adult. This is why, as
an adult, you say, feel, or react in certain ways out of your control
and don't understand why. You relate to the world through the inner
child identity, which creates the parameters for future interpersonal
limitation. In other words, seeing our present-time relationship
through the past-time window of the inner child limits our view,
resources, emotional parameters, and our decisions.
Let' s take an example of a mother who wants her child to
"please her." Asking a child to please Mom in order to get love,
attention, and approval can be more traumatic for the child than
Age Regression + 27
might normally be appreciated. Asking a child to give up what they
want, or even to "give-up themselves" to please Mom, and hence
survive, is asking a child to give up an internal need. In the confusion
and chaos of determining how to survive, the observer creates a
pleasing-child identity.
Throughout the book, I break down the word identity to I-
dentity, to emphasize how the adult in present time becomes an
/-dentity in past time. Calling the memory "I" creates a separate I-
dentity (This will be discussed further in Chapter 6). In this case,
however, the child gives up himself and represses his inner wants
or desires. In fact in many cases of co-dependency, the pleasing
aspect of the child is covered by a layer of rage.
In this example, the inner-child pleaser created by the observer
also has its opposite, an angry dark side which the pleaser is
masking. After all, wouldn't you get angry if you had to please to
get love? Often times clients I work with have a continual low-grade
anger or irritation, which they blame on the world. When a client
presents me with, "I am continually angry at the world," I ask her,
" What need do you have that is unmet?" Frustration and anger is
caused by not getting what you need or want. Often times we get
angry and blame the outer world rather than asking ourselves,
"What do I want that I am not getting?"
This interrupts the inner child' s anger and blaming of the
outside world, by forcing the adult to look at what need he has that
isn't being met, acknowledged or mentioned.
Blaming
There is such a relief in knowing who's to blame. If you are
suffering, someone must be responsible....Blaming often
involves making someone responsible for choices and
decisions that are actually your own responsibility. In
blame systems (trances), somebody is always doing it to
you, and you have no responsibility to assert your needs,
say no, or go elsewhere for what you want. (McKay,
1981:23)
28 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Of course getting a person to directly ask for what she wants
from her partner or spouse is difficult, because the dark side of the
wounded inner child wants to get without asking. Asking is too
vulnerable, too risky, because the child was punished for being
open. Often times, parents give suggestions like, "Who do you think
you are?" "Do you think money grows on trees." In India (see
Chapter 14, "Spiritualization") they believe that saying what you
want or even wanting is the source of all human problems. In many
situations, the child learns how to get what is wanted not by asking
directly, but rather by acting indirectly. This is often modeled by
Mom and Dad, who show the child how to get what is wanted
without asking. The parents can model this manipulation, and years
later the child within the adult gets angry at a spouse because the
spouse doesn't "mind read" the inner child's signals. Complaints in
a relationship occur often times because the spouse doesn't know
what is wanted, since it wasn't asked for.
I once had a client who was working on his relationship with his
mother. I asked, "What do you want from her?" The inner child
responded, "I wanted her to give me everything I wanted, whenever
I wanted it, without having to ask." The adult saw how out of line
the inner child' s demand was and was able to let it go.
Cutting off our feelings is traumatic. Often the child has to
repress or pretend his own wishes or desires are not important.
Years later, he doesn't even know what he wants. Noted psychiatrist
Dr. Wilhelm Reich, in his book The Murder of Christ, likens one' s
natural life force or energy to Christ. Reich suggests that a parent,
in trying to get a child to conform and give up feelings or needs,
"kills" the natural life force of the child. Reich calls this the
"emotional plague." Reich states that as your life force is killed or
repressed, so you will force others to repress natural energy and
emotional energy. Stated more simply, the degree to which your life
force was repressed or killed by another is the same degree to which
you will try to repress or kill another' s life force.
In recent years the ancient healing system of acupuncture, long
acknowledged in Asia, has gained popularity in the West. Why? We
are beginning to believe, like Reich, that disease is caused by
blocking the natural flow of energy in the body.
As an example, a woman who is treated in her family as
unintelligent might experience this as painful and try hard to fight
  
against it. Inside, her frozen inner child continues to create the
trance, "I'm not smart." This seems to occur in individuals fre-
quently. Often times, physical symptoms like migraine headaches,
ulcers, and colitis accompany these emotional problems. After all,
it takes a lot of energy to hold back the natural life force of the body.
Interestingly enough, the word "emotion" can be broken down into
"e" meaning outward, and "motion", hence, outward motion. Psy-
chologically and physically, an interruption in outward motion can
cause both psychological and physical disease.
As another example, let's imagine a child who has a powerful
energy motion toward Mom. Mom labels that energy "anger" and
"thwarts it" either by words, punishment or withdrawal of love.
That outward flow of energy, which is now labeled "anger" must go
somewhere. Where does it go? The child puts it back on herself
creating self-anger, self-hatred, guilt and/or depression. I recently
saw a client who got sore throats whenever he felt anger. As we
began to focus on his throat, an image of Dad emerged. When I
asked him to express his anger at Dad, he could barely talk. I asked
him, "What would you like to say to Dad?" He replied, "I'd like to
strangle him." When I asked him to reach out and do it (in his mind),
his throat contracted, and he had an urge to strangle himself. Here
we see someone unable to express the outward motion toward Dad
and, instead, turning it against himself and "strangling" himself.
The result: chronic sore throats.
In life when a problem appears, it often has a "feeling younger"
quality to it that repeats itself not only at an emotional and physical
level but also at a cognitive level. It can be presupposed that any
problem contains an element of age regression (acting younger than
you are), which is the signal that the inner child has taken over.
As in all trances and identities, the age-regressed inner child
effects the adult in present time. What is meant by this is that the
observer freezes the inner-child identity and relates to the present-
time world through this window. Interestingly enough, that "fear"
(feels frozen and cold, a major complaint of many clients. In other
words the observer freezes the memory by using fear. Fear, there-
fore, becomes the vehicle used by the observer to freeze the natural
flow of a memory.
The inner child relates child-to-adult in past time, rather than
self-to-other in present time. For example, I was working with a
30 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
divorced woman, who said that her husband was constantly imag-
ining she was a bitch. No matter what she did to prove otherwise, he
continued to claim this was so. One day over lunch, she looked into
his eyes and noticed a film covering his eyes. He had moved from
a present-time interaction (self-to-wife) to an inner child trance
(child-to-Mom) and he was watching some past picture of mom,
that he overlaid on his wife in present time.
This process, moving into the inner child, explains why we
often feel alone in relationships. We move from self-to-other in
present time, to child-to-parents in past time. The inner child
becomes the hypnotist making suggestions to the present-time
adult, who is the subject. In doing this, we lose our connection with
the other person and the present world and hence feel lonely,
misunderstood, and alienated.
  

AB
Illustration #2
Age Regression + 31
In illustration #2 we see the inner child of person B hypnotizing
the internalized parent in person A. Interestingly, the inner child of
person A is hypnotizing the parent of person B. This is trance-
ference, and counter trance-ference, and is the cornerstone of
problem states that occur in relationships.
In the former example, where the woman goes into the "I'm not
smart enough" a inner child trance, she probably will pick a man
who treats her that way. This mutual inner child trance between her
and her husband possibly might be a re-creation of both her inner
child and his inner-child family trance. (See Illustration 2.) The
inner child's trance becomes frozen or created by a series of
interpersonal interactions in the family, which take over individual
experiences of NOW. In essence, both husband and wife become
their age-regressed inner-child identity and project the parent on the
other person, thus losing their present-time relationship.
Age regression describes the process an adult goes through as
he becomes the inner child. This creates blind spots. A relationship
cannot work if neither person is in present time. Interactions are
"time frozen," because NOW is experienced as if it were a prior
time. Consequently, behavior appears as if it were now, while
actually a person is acting as if he were a child or adolescent in his
family.
The Task
1. Identify when you become or feel younger than you
are.
2. Notice when it occurs and what triggers it.
3. Notice where in your physical or mental space the inner
child resides. For example, is the inner child in your
mental space, physical body, both?
4. Watch and observe the inner child identity.
5. Observe and take responsibility for the created inner
child identity.
6. Notice that you are the observer and creator of the inner
child identity window you are looking through.
7. Learn to stop creating the inner child identity as a
window to view present reality.
32 o The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Age regression is a trance, understood as the basic process
during which the observer moves from present time to a frozen
picture of a child interacting with an adult in past time. The observer
takes that past-time picture and overlays or trance-fers it on top of
present time experiences. The observer sees the world through the
eyes of the dark side of the inner child by overlaying what is actually
occurring. Breaking this habit de-hypnotizes the observer and
places the memory (picture) back in linear time. As long as the
memory and the inner child are out of control, they will "pop up" on
their own, outside the awareness of the adult.
For example, let's say there is an observer observing a small girl
in 1950. The little girl gets molested by Uncle Henry. At the time,
the observer cannot understand what is occurring and feels chaos or
confusion. In that chaos, the observer "freezes the action of the
film," and to protect the (little girl), the observer decides, "Don't
trust men or this will happen again," or "Remember this so it won't
happen again." In 1993, the 42 year old woman has a wounded inner
child that pops up when John tries to be intimate. The observer
trance-fers the past occurrence with Uncle Henry in 1950 to the
present one with John. The present-day woman age regresses and
becomes the wounded child who freezes, feels scared, and may or
may not know why. De-hypnosis undoes the trance of the past so the
memory that pops up can get placed in the background as a memory,
rather than trance-ferred over present-time reality, as a foreground.
In this case the observer takes a picture of the little girl being
molested and the perpetrator (Uncle Henry). Both parts reside
within the inner child, i.e., victim and perpetrator. These two parts
of the inner child become the world view of men even years later.
Hence the perpetrator gets trance-ferred on men and the victim feels
scared, or the victim gets trance-ferred on a child and the perpetra-
tor-part of the inner child takes over and abuses. It is the
perpetrator-part of the inner child that molests children; that is why
the research demonstrates that almost all child molesters were
molested as children. Let me give another example.
Recently, I was working with a client who complained how
much she hated herself, and how she heard a voice inside her head
saying, "You're bad," "You deserve to be punished," and "I hate
you." We discovered that as a child she was physically abused by
her stepfather who would say precisely these things to her. What
Age Regression + 33
occurred was that the observer took a picture of the beaten child and
the stepfather. Both lived inside of her, and she would hear the
voices inside of her saying, "You're bad," "You deserve to be
punished," and "I hate you." This part of the inner child had fused
and become the perpetrator. So the perpetrator's voice (hypnotic
suggestion) had become part of the inner child' s dark side.
These voices and the ensuing poor self-esteem was a past- time
trance, which came from the perpetrator. Once the inner child fuses
with the voice, even years later, the perpetrator lives within the adult
as an inner child identity, giving the adult outrageous suggestions.
This will be discussed in greater detail in Chapter 7, "Inner Dia-
logue". Suffice to say for now that a critical issue in the treatment
of incest is the fusion with the perpetrator. (See Illustration 3, page
34) It is freezing the memory and the resistance to the chaos of the
situation that causes the memory to pop up on its own and become
foreground of its own volition. De-hypnosis allows the memory to
become background, allowing present time to be foreground.
Discovering your inner child and the trance that holds problems
in place is crucial. Then the experience can be worked with so that
responsibility can shift to the observer, the creator of the inner child.
Your task is to observe and appreciate your inner child' s trance, that
you probably would have called your problem or symptom. Since
the trance was used as a survival mechanism in your family of
origin, we call it a "family trance" because you as a child were the
subject and your parents the hypnotists. Individuals have learned to
survive by utilizing trance skills in their families. Children who
don't obey the family trance can be labeled "bad" or "troublemak-
ers." People go into trances not knowing, for instance, that they are
acting like a child. This is the process of age regression.
Here is another example. The little girl who sits on Daddy's lap
and learns how to "be cute" so Daddy will buy her a new dress, is
that same little girl who is sitting on Hubby' s lap being cute so that
she gets what she wants. These are exactly the same inner-child
trance experiences. The trance of age regression allows that phe-
nomenon, the present-time adult becoming a past-time child, to
manifest itself in the present.
You construct your experience using the process of age regres-
sion by altering subjectively how you experience the present. The
job is to awaken from your dream shifting, from being the child in
  
  

Age Regression • 35
past time, to being the observer/creator of your experience in
present time. Once awakened from the inner child's trance, re-
sources of the present become available to you which were not
available to the child.
When the trance is unglued, present-time problems lose power.
The last trance example, called "being cute," had become a perma-
nent fixture of her experience. Her trance worked as a survival
mechanism. In order to survive the childhood environment, she had
developed a trance experience, called "being cute." It worked in that
situation, and certain episodes in her present-time adult environ-
ment triggered the child within to hypnotize the adult in present
time.
The Next Step
Working with Age Regression
Remember.
Re-member. To re-member is to become a member of present
time reality.
When handling age-regressed states completely and totally,
allow the resisted experience to unfold. In other words, you need to
look at whatever chaos (trauma) or memory caused the observer to
"stop action" or push "pause" on the film. It was the resistance to
looking at what was occurring that placed the movie on "hold," to
be reviewed again, and again, and again.
Step I: Identify the trance.
The most important step in getting out of an inner child trance
is to recognize you're in it. Richard Alpert (Ram Dass) would say,
"In order to get out of a jail, first you must realize you're in one."
(Ram Dass, The Only Dance There Is) The fact is, that 90% of the
process is realizing that there is a "child inside" operating. Why?
Because, you must step out of the trance of the inner child just to
notice or be aware that you are age-regressing as an adult. By
noticing and observing the aged-regressed child, you are being the
observer, the first crucial step.
36 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Step II: Answer the following questions and make a list of your
answers.
Question 1: location. Notice where the inner-child Iden-
tity is located in the physical body or in
mental space?
Question 2: Self-esteem. By fusing with this Identity,
does your perspective of yourself change?
How?
Question 3: World View. By fusing with this Identity, is
your perception of the world changing? How?
Question 4: Does this identity have any emotions or
feelings associated with it? Which ones?
Step III:
Now that we are clearer about this inner child Identity, ask the
Identity two more questions, and write down your answers. Keep
asking the questions until nothing else pops up.
Question 1. What are you, the inner child identity, resist-
ing knowing about yourself?
Question 2. What are you, the inner child identity, resist-
ing experiencing?
Allow the answers to come from the inner-child Identity, and
write them down.
Step /V: Homework.
Note your answers, and this week begin to observe how often
you take on and become this Identity.
Step V:
Finally, give the identity a name, like, loser, victim, manipula-
tor. Each time it pops up for you, or you notice you are fused with
it internally, call its name e.g., victim, loser. This will help you to
Age Regression * 37  
de-fuse and unfuse with the inner child, thus allowing you to
become the observer in present time.*
Conclusion
Being able to identify both sides of the inner child' s trance
allows us to observe its workings. It is the self-observation of the
workings of the inner child that adds awareness. Awareness is the
solvent for the glue of the automatic trance states of the child within
the adult. In order to give something up, you must first know what
it is. These exercises, when applied, give us the awareness that is
needed to know the workings of this inner-child Identity so we can
give it up and return to the present-time world.
  



  

  
Futurizing
Life is what happens to you, while you re busy making other
plans.
"Beautiful Boy,"John Lennon
In John Lennon' s classic song "Beautiful Boy," Lennon de-
scribes a phenomenon that we all experience: our bodies being in
present time, but our minds moving into the future. "Futurizing"
describes this process, whether it be planning for the future, imag-
ing a catastrophe in the future, imagining a pleasant outcome in the
future, or just imagining talking with someone in the future. This
trance comes from the dark side of the time-frozen inner child and
it keeps us out of present-time reality.
In the immortal classic by H.G. Wells, The Time Machine, a
person is able to go forward or backward in time. The problem with
futurizing is 1) travel is not in "real time" but in imagined time, and
(2) in the time machine, a switch gives the operator choice, with
automatic futurizing, there is no choice. A person finds himself in
the future. Frequently, clients complain of anxiety, (fear of the
40 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
future). All too often, this fear of the future is actually fear of an
imagined future.
For example, I am in a relationship and feel "in love." I go away
for business for a week and imagine my girlfriend having an affair.
As the fantasy continues, I futurize myself coming home several
days later, moving to my own apartment and being alone and
unhappy. The odd part about futurizing is that I feel the pain of the
imagined situation right now, even though it is a fantasy of a
catastrophic future.
1. Catastrophizing
In the cognitive therapy of Albert Ellis, he categorizes one style
of futurizing: catastrophizing.
"Catastrophic thoughts often start with the words what if.
What if my daughter gets pregnant? What if I lose my job?
What ifI get sick and can't work?" (McKay, 1981:21)
Catastrophizing, which is one style of futurizing, takes place
when a person projects herself into the future and imagines a
catastrophic outcome. As mentioned earlier, the complaint of
anxiety is imagining a catastrophic outcome and experiencing
distress now. This trance of the dark side of the inner child takes
place as the child sees trauma in his life. The child assumes that this
is how life will always be. As an adult, the child within the adult
continually "pops-up" catastrophies and thinks they are real. The
result is pain and suffering in present time. Here, past catastrophies
are projected into the future.
2. Fantasizing
In this style of the futurizing trance, the child imagines a
pleasant outcome in the future. The pleasant imagined outcome
helps protect the child from the distressing, ongoing interactions in
the family. For example, a child imagines herself waiting "for her
ship to come in," or imagines her talent being "discovered," or
fantasizes a time when she will be "taken care of." Problems arise
when the child within the adult stays "stuck" and continues to
imagine the unrealistic idealized future. A woman I once saw for
therapy was in a relationship with a man for years and was always
frustrated. She wanted him to take care of her. She felt frustrated
  
because, outside of her awareness, the dark side of the inner child
was hypnotizing the present-time adult, making her believe that this
was supposed to happen—hence the adult in present time f'elt
frustrated and angry at her partner for not taking care of her.
The important thing to note is that with each style of futurizing
the adult shifts from a present-time reality, to the inner-child reality
that trance-fers the past to the future. In futurizing, so strong is the
trance of the inner child that the adult believes the future is the past.
Why do these "trances" occur? A child in a stressful situation
often feels confused, overwhelmed, crazy or chaotic. In that chaos,
the observer creates a fantasy that helps dissipate the feeling of
chaos.
For example, I was seeing a woman for therapy who, as a little
girl, had to take care of her physically ill Dad. She felt trapped. Her
survival mechanism was to imagine a wonderful man taking her
away from all of this, thus the feelings of being overwhelmed
dissipated.
A gentleman I was seeing for therapy, had lived as a small boy
in a poverty-stricken situation. To handle that, he created a fantasy
of money coming to him. His distress would subside.
In both cases, fantasizing worked for the child to handle the
situation. Problems arose however when the child within became
automatic and time-frozen. When the woman came for therapy, she
had a history of picking men she wanted to have take care of her. She
never developed a career, and these men did not want to take care
of her. She came to my office lamenting, very needy, having driven
men away, and without a relationship.
The child within the man, in the latter example, was continually
obsessing about not having enough money. Instead of working to
make a living, he would fantasize money coming to him. The inner
child within the man began to develop "New Age" philosophies that
believe visualizing money makes it come. (See Chapter 14, Spiri-
tualization.) When he came to see me, he was broke, married, living
in a trailer, not working, selling possessions for food.
Such is the power of the fantasizing trance of "futurizing". The
dark side of the inner child alleviates emotional stress but functions
without feedback from the real world. The child within the adult
thinks the fantasy is reality. It' s not that the inner child is wrong or
bad, but just that what worked at ages two through six does not work
at age 36.
42 4- The Dark Side of the Inner Child
At first, futurizing is dependent on the events of early life.
Problems arise when futurizing becomes autonomous, has a life of
its own. It acts on its own, independently, being cut adrift from its
original source, the family. In this way fantasies arise on their own,
and people live life fantasizing about the future, rather than expe-
riencing "now."
Another trance form associated with futurizing occurs when the
individual creates self-talk, an internal dialogue (see Chapter 7,
Inner Dialogue). "I never get what I want," is an example. Not only
is now catastrophic for the child, but the future also is imagined as
catastrophic. This orientation is a combination of age regression, in
which the past is "fixed," but also the past pain is trance-fered to the
future. This "time-frozen pattern" is also an age regression since the
anxiety trance comes from the dark side of the child within, not from
the adult in present time. In present time the adult has many
resources available. It is the child within that feels there are no
resources. The adult feels the child trance as real and so experiences
anxiety. The past pain stays alive as an experience in the present,
and as a projected, imagined future. In this state there is only frozen
past time overlayed on present or future time. A negative associa-
tion with the experience of the past is created and re-enacted many
times without seeing now.
Unfortunately for the present time adult, the inner child is so
good at hypnotizing the adult, that the adult does not know that he
is seeing the future, or past as the present. Recently, I was working
with a therapist as a client who was upset and angry with a married
couple he was working with. He complained angrily, "Why is he
living with this abusive woman." Through therapy, he realized that
his inner child had trance-ferred his past-time parents on this
married couple. His inner child hypnotized my client, who was a
family therapist, into treating the man as his mother and the woman
as his father. He realized, as he observed the inner child, that in
many of his relationships, his age-regressed inner child trance-fered
the past Mom and Dad on present-time people. This is more
common than therapists realize. For many years I was trained as a
family therapist. As I watched other family therapists work, I would
watch them, (through the one-way miror) age-regress and feel
powerless to help a couple or family. This is the power of age-
regression. Even trained family therapists have a dark side of an
Futurizing 43
inner child in them. If, while giving therapy, the family who is
receiving therapy activates the therapist's inner child, the therapist
age-regresses and feels powerless to help the family. This is exactly
how the therapist felt as a child powerless to help their family.
This is why the family trance is so powerful, and often times why
some family therapists work with a co-therapist in the room.
Hopefully, one of them will stay in present time and not age-regress.
Futurizing is experienced by people who are in a daily state of
free-floating anxiety. Futurizing has elements of inner dialogues
and age regression. The goal is to work and emancipate yourself
from the child' s trance, and dehypnotize yourself, to resolve the
anxiety.
Trances of the inner child are born of chaos, so how could a
child born of chaos produce anything else but chaos? The inner
child looks through a window of chaos and trys to rectify it through
trance, creating even more present-time chaos.
An example is a little girl or boy who grows up in a dysfunc-
tional family. These children will read and identify with a story like
Horatio Alger, an impoverished child that became rich and success-
ful. Another example is the girl who grows up with the classic
"Cinderella" complex. Here the observer creates the state; "Every-
thing is so awful that some day Prince Charming is going to take me
away from all this." These trance systems helped the child handle
the situation. When reality is threatening, he/she imagines a more
pleasant, successful future.
In my forthcoming book, The Tao of Chaos, we will explore the
resistance to chaos as precluding development of all systems.
A woman came to see me because she was experiencing anxiety
from the fact that in two weeks her divorce would be final. The dark
side of the child within her suffered anxiety and created a cata-
strophic future in the divorce property settlement. I suggested she
notice where in her body the child within lived. Often times the child
within gets frozen in areas of the body causing tightness in the jaw,
chest, stomach, pelvis and in extreme cases a feeling of paralysis.
As mentioned earlier and emphasized in my former book Trances
People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychology, trances
require a tightening of the muscles of the body and a holding of the
breath.
44 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
In this example, I asked her to intentionally create the child
living in her stomach by placing the fear and inner voices inside. I
asked her to continue creating the fear and accompanying fantasies.
I asked her, "Tell me the difference between you (the observer) and
the inner child." She responded, "Well, I can observe the inner
child." I asked her to keep creating the inner child and the
catastrophizing. After creating it intentionally, she took charge of
the panicked inner child and realized that she was the observer/
creator of it, hence she could stop creating it.
The most important task of the observer is to create the inner
child intentionally. This is the reason noted physicist John Wheeler
changed the word observer in physics to the word participator.
Why? Because the observer not only observes; the observer also
participates in the creation of internal subjective reality.
The intentional creation of the experience makes it possible to
choose. You awaken the observer to its creative aspect by asking the
observer to create intentionally and knowingly, that which they are
creating unknowingly. The observer has been sleeping and is
hypnotized. By having the observer create his own trance, the
observer awakens to its creative aspect.
3. Planning
"Planning" is a form of futurizing that occurs when the child
cannot tell her parents how she feels. She imagines a time in the
future when she tells her parents how she feels and the parents
understand and admit they were wrong.
I saw a very famous writer in Santa Cruz, who wrote a book
putting his famous father down. He built a case, in a lecture I
attended, showing how he was good and Dad was bad. What was
extraordinary was that, at the end of the story, Dad admits he was
wrong and the son was right, and the audience exploded in applause.
Why? Many people hold this trance.
Another style of planning takes place when a child cannot tell
his parents how he feels so he plans ways to spite or get even with
his parents in the future. This is a "winning by losing" trance, and
here I often ask clients to fill in the blanks:
1. I spite you by.
2. I get even with you by.
3.   I win by losing by  
4. show you. I won't
5. show you. I will
These questions make the implicit explicit and reveal this
classic masochistic trance of the dark side of the inner child.
   4. The Explainer
I call this trance "play it again, Sam," because a friend of mine
planned conversations, explanations, or justifications in the future
with people. Whenever he noticed this occurring, he would say,
"Here we go again, tape loop 98.74, play it again."
In this case, the child might have done something wrong or
knows it will be punished in the future, based on past experience. So
the dark side of the inner child plans a justification in the future. The
child practices arguments for and against, like an attorney making
an appeal. Catastrophizing can accompany this, so the guillotine
(heavy punishment from the parents) pushes the justifier even
further. The trance is an imagined future; the child within has a
justifier trance, continually explaining and justifying actions, reac-
tions, emotions and the basic "whys" of life. The justifier gets
justice or doesn't, but the trance of imagining catastrophe (and
counter-punching the impending doom with a justification in the
future) continues, even as the adult grows older.
   5. Fallacy of Fairness
In cognitive therapy, there is a thinking distortion called "fal-
lacy of fairness."
"This distorted thinking style hinges on the application of
legal and contractual rules to the vagaries of interpersonal
relations. The trouble is that two people seldom agree on
what fairness is, and there is no court or final arbitrator to
help them. Fairness is a subjective assessment of how
much of what one expected, needed, or hoped for has been
provided by the temptingly self-serving, that each person
gets locked into his or her own point of view.
The fallacy of fairness is often expressed in conditional
assumptions: If he loved me, he'd do ... If he loved me, he'd
46 4. The Dark Side of the Inner Child
help me to orgasm ... If this was a real marriage, she'd hike
with me and learn to like it ... If he cared at all, he'd come
home right after work... If they valued my work here, they' d
get me a nicer desk.
It is tempting to make assumptions about how things would
change if people were fair or really valued you. But other
people hardly see it that way and you end up causing
yourself a lot of pain." (McKay 1981:22)
Where do These Trances and
Thinking Styles Come From?
Trances and thinking styles can come from the observer taking
a picture of mom' s and dad' s behavior, and using it as a model for
the future. The observer creates an inner child that is a duplicate of
the parents. The observer then goes to sleep and the created inner
child walks like, talks like, acts like, sounds like, and even feels the
same as the parents feel toward life. This is why so often, if you have
children, you act and talk to your children, just as your mother or
father acted or talked to you.
In the fallacy of fairness, a certain value system is generally
absorbed by the child from Mom, Dad, or both, which teaches the
child what is fair. For example, Mom and Dad had an unspoken
agreement that Dad works and Mom stays home with the kids. This
trade-off is thought of as "fair." If Mom wants to go visit her sister
for a few days, Dad says, "That's not fair." Let's say Mom and Dad
pay for your schooling, and you drop out. Mom and Dad say, "That
isn't fair because, after all, we paid for you." Fair is a term that is
relative to a particular position and value system. So the observer
learns what is fair through modeling, and learning how to act and
feel, e.g., depressed, betrayed, when this implicit contract of fair-
ness is not carried out.
There used to be a workshop in Los Angeles in the mid-1970' s
called, "If you loved me you would ." It recognized that
problems arise when an angry or depressed child within the adult
assumes unstated contracts of fairness, without checking it out. The
Futurizing 47
emotional state of the adult is the result of the child within duplicat-
ing his family's reaction to the betrayal of fairness.
The Next Step
Handling Futurizing
Step I:Notice when the inner child is futurizing.
Step II: Identify the brand of futurizing the inner child is
creating.
   1. Catastrophizing
   2. Fantasizing
   3. Planning
   4. The Explainer/Justifier
   5. Fallacy of Fairness
Step III: Notice where in your body the inner child lives
by noticing areas of tension or tightness.
For Catastrophizing:
Dialogue with the inner child.
Ask the inner child these questions and write down all of your
answers. Make sure the answers come from the inner child not the
adult figuring out what the inner child might say.
   1. What incident do you (the inner child) remember that
caused this catastrophizing? Write down your answers.
   2. What incident do you (the inner child) not know about,
that might have caused this catastrophizing?
   3. What catastrophic incident in the past might you (the
inner child) be projecting into the future?
   4. "What incident do you (the inner child) not know about
that might cause this projection of a catastrophic past
into future?
   5. Are you (the inner child) resisting this knowing and
experience?
48 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
   6. Intentionally resist the experience.
   7. Intentionally have the experience.
   8. Intentionally create both the experience and the resis-
tance.
   9. Notice you are the observer/creator of the experience.
For Fantasizing
Write down your answers.
   1. Ask the inner child, "What happened in the past that
you (the inner child) are resisting?"
   2. Ask the inner child, "What incident do you not know
about that may have happened in the past, that caused
this fantasizing of the future?"
   3. Ask the inner child, "Are you resisting this knowing
and experience?"
   4. Intentionally resist the experience.
   5. Intentionally have the experience.
   6. Intentionally create the experience and resistance.
   7. Notice you are the observer/creator of the experience.
For Planning
Write down your answers.
   1. Ask the inner child, "What happened in the past that
you are projecting in the future?"
   2. Ask the inner child, "What may have happened in the
past that I do not know about, that caused this projec-
tion of past into future?"
   3. Are you (the inner child) resisting this knowing and
experience?
   4. Intentionally resist the experience.
   5. Intentionally have the experience.
   6. Intentionally create the experience and the resistance.
   7. Notice you are the observerlcreator of the experience.
For The Explainer (Justifier)
1. Ask the inner child, "What incident may have hap-
pened in the past that caused you to justify yourself?"
Futurizing * 49
   2. Ask the inner child, "What incident may have hap-
pened in the past that you do not know about that
caused this projection of past justifications into fu-
ture?"
   3. Ask the inner child, "Are you resisting this knowing
and experience?"
   4. Intentionally resist the experience.
   5. Intentionally have the experience.
   6. Intentionally create the experience and the resistance.
   7. Notice you are the observer/creator of the experience.
For the Fallacy of Fairness
   1. Notice when the inner child is in the fallacy of fairness.
   2. Whose (Mom/Dad) value system and feelings (Mom
or Dad) did your inner child take on?
   3. Be the observer of the Mom/Dad value system that
yields particular feelings.
   4. See the feelings as coming from Mom/Dad.
   5. Create the feelings and voices several times.
   6. Notice you are the observer/creator of the experience.
Conclusion
With all trances of the inner child, the key solvent to the process
is awareness. Remember:
   1. You (the observer) are in the inner child' s trance.
   2. Notice where in your body the inner child is located.
   3. Notice the brand of trance and thinking style involved.
   4. Observe and create them until you (the observer) can
take responsibility for the dark side of the inner child.
Awareness becomes the major solvent for the glue of futurizing.
Once awareness is added, the observer/creator (you) are free to stop
automatically creating the problem again and again, unknowingly.


•6  
Dis-connection:
Feeling Separate From
Yourself or Others
Dis-connection is a trance that the observer creates which
enables the child to disconnect from uncomfortable situations.
Commonly called dissociation in psychology, the trance of discon-
nection occurs when a child is unable to handle the family and so the
observer creates a disconnection. Disconnection can be experi-
enced as spacing out, or feeling like you're not there. Problems arise
when the observer sleeps and the child within the adult disconnects
and goes into a disconnection trance automatically.
Disconnection is a trance that can be experienced in several
styles:
1. Not Owning Trance
An observer might disconnect a child in a stressful family
situation. The observer disconnects the child from parts of his or her
52 • The Dark Side of the inner Child  
self. For example, if a child is not allowed to show affection, the
observer might disconnect the child from that particular feeling.
Years later, the inner child may experience a disconnection-from-
intimacy trance. If a child is not allowed to get angry, the observer
disconnects the child from that feeling. Years later, the angry part
erupts from the frozen child, but when asked, "Are you angry," the
person replies from the adult' s point of view, "Who me, angry? Of
course not. I never get angry." The adult experience is that he never
gets angry. It is some disconnected part that gets angry and, if he
could get rid of it, everything would be fine.
2. Disappearing
In a dysfunctional family a child might leave, or disappear, and
experience his or her self as "not here." To protect a child of
alcoholic parents the observer either inwardly or outwardly makes
the child feel like he disappears and, hence, the child feels invisible.
This disappearing trance can create huge problems in relation-
ships, particularly in the area of intimacy. She literally disappears,
going nowhere, or she might imagine herself someplace else, e.g.,
the beach, in the mountains, anything to avoid present time. What
makes this trance interesting is that the body smiles, nods, carries on
a conversation, yet no one is home. Often people don't remember
what was told them, or what they agreed to. (See Chapter 12,
Amnesia)
Disconnection is often used in later years to develop a "spiritual
practice." Meditation can actually be medication, dulling, numbing
or not owning one' s experience. The difference between real
observation and disconnection is simple. If you are free to experi-
ence an emotion like anger, and free not to, then you are in pure
observation and truly meditating. If you cannot or will not experi-
ence your feelings but have to disconnect from them under the guise
of spirituality, you might be using meditation as medication and a
spiritual philosophy to re-enforce your disconnection.* Further-
more, to protect the child during a trauma an observer might create
a dissociative state, which, often times, protects the child from the
pain of the trauma. Meditation is used as medication. The person
goes into a dissociative trance and thinks its meditation because  
  
they feel peaceful and calm. In reality, however, this dissociative
trance hides the trauma. The strategy of the observer creating
dissociative trances to protect the child appears, like meditation,
but is only a combination of amnesia and numbing-out called
dissociation.
I had a psychiatrist friend, who, because he couldn't feel,
imagined he was spiritual. He developed anorexia (not eating) and
called it "fasting." As this escalated, he began using enemas under
the spiritual label of "purification."
The disconnection of the inner child within the adult can
become so strong that in order not to feel, any means is adopted,
even meditation or using spirituality as medication. (See Chapter
14, Spiritualization)
3. / Am Not My Body Trance:
A particular body part, due to parental or family suggestions,
may be experienced as "not me." For example, frequently in this
culture, both men and women are forced to dis-connect from sexual
feelings. Men often give their penis a name, as if it has a life of its
own. Comedian Robin Williams calls his penis "Mr. Happy."
This disconnection trance has created far-reaching sexual dis-
connections that produce many relationship problems. Often, this
manifests in cases of frigidity in women, impotence or premature
ejaculation in men. If a man disconnects from his penis, he may
either not feel sexual sensations enough to have an erection, or
fixate his entire attention on his penis, losing the rest of his body and
prematurely ejaculate. A women who cannot have an orgasm may
have disconnected from her own genitals. Often, suffering from
these sexual disconnections occurs during childhood sexual abuse;
this will be discussed in greater depth in Chapter 13, Sensory
Distortion, and Chapter 14, Spiritualization.
In more subtle instances, a child may experience his or her
mouth as being separate from his or her self. The child might have
had to respond to parents (play their game) to such an extent that the
child is always paying lip service and is not experiencing his or her
mouth or words as coming from his or her self. These automatic
head nods, smiles, or "pretends," hide the observer behind the
trance. The observer is protecting the child's true feelings. Years
later at work or in relationships, the inner child within the adult will
54 •:* The Dark Side of the inner Child
automatically play the game and go into a disconnection-from-self
trance.
I once had a man come into a session who had a Ph.D. in
Chemistry from Harvard. He complained of impotence, and as I
began working with him, he experienced his head disconnected and
floating above his body. As he began to reconnect his head to his
body, his repressed sexual feelings toward his mother came up.
Here his sexuality was so fused with his mother that he felt no
sensation in the head of his penis, and the sensations were in his
head (Ph.D. Chemist from Harvard). Reconnecting his head to his
body somehow forced the sensations of sexuality for his mother to
emerge.
Developmentally, disconnection helps a child survive. Dis-
connection means being over there, rather than here. Disconnection
occurs when external reality is threatening. The child handled this
and survived by taking off, checking out, or disconnecting. A child
of an alcoholic or abusive family might check out to avoid the
painful present. Often in cases of incest, a person might check out
to avoid contact. Later in life, the disconnection remains as a trance,
and intimacy cannot occur.
As mentioned earlier, the other side of disconnection is, classi-
cally, fusion.
4. Fusion
Fusion was an understanding developed in Structural Family
Therapy by Salvador Minuchin and Braulio Montalvo, and in
Strategic Family Therapy by Jay Maley and Cloe Madanes.
Fusion is a trance in which the observer creates a child identity
in which a child over-identifies with and fuses with a family
member. Sometimes this can occur when the child is asked to take
care of a family member, commonly called caretaking. The child
has to look after a dysfunctional parent in order to survive. The
observer creates two parts of the child. One takes care of the
dysfunctional parent and another fuses and becomes the dysfunc-
tional parent.
An example is child abuse. In most cases, grown men and
women who sexually abuse children were themselves abused as
children. The observer during the abuse creates an image of a
victimized child and an abuser. From this point on, the child within
Ibis-connection • 55
the adult has two parts; victim of the abuse, and the abuser. Fusing
with the perpetrator is a key to working with incest survivors. As an
adult, the abuser-part of the child within projects the child who was
abused on other children, and abuses them. It is the dark side or
abuser-part of the inner child (inside the adult) which feels the
compulsion to abuse. The abuser child within is on automatic and
out of control as an adult. This is the power of the dark side of the
inner child.
Recently, a physician sent me a client he described as "spiri-
tual." When I saw her, she complained of two problems: (1) she
couldn't feel, and (2) the voices in her mind were telling her she was
bad, evil. So, "I hate myself," she said.
At first, she gave me this very long story about how she left her
body and floated to the top of the room. This part of her was her
spirit. (See Chapter 14, Spiritualization). I asked her, "Were you
ever physically or sexually abused?" She said, "Yes, my stepfather
would beat me mercilessly while verbally abusing me." I said,
"When did you start leaving your body?" She said, "During the
beatings." I suggested that leaving the body automatically was a
defense against feeling the pain of the beatings, and not "spiritual."
She cried saying, "It is the only hope I have." I said, "It was the only
hope you had, but it is now creating problems for you in present
time."
This is an example of spiritualizing and disconnecting. The
little girl disconnected from her body in order not to feel pain. But
a part of her felt the pain and fused with the voice of her abusive
stepfather, taking on his words and freezing them in her own head,
resisting them and repeating them to herself over, and over, and
over, yielding feelings of self-hatred. I wish to note she only saw me
twice and it was not resolved in my office. I say this to emphasize
that abuse is a serious issue and is not resolved by brief therapy.
Severe abuse requires patience and knowledge on the part of the
therapist, awareness and the ability to confront what occurred on the
part of the client.
56 4. The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Structural and Strategic
Family Therapy
In these two widely used forms of family therapy, the child
often is brought to therapy with a problem, e.g., disobeying Dad/
Mom, being disrespectful, drugs, teen pregnancy. In these models
of therapy, the child might fuse with Mom who is angry with Dad,
and the child becomes Mom' s angry voice. The treatment is to
separate the child from being the mother' s spokesperson (de-fuse),
and have the mother speak for herself to the father. In this case, the
child believes she is helping or protecting Mom. Actually, the child
is fusing with the parent, which diverts the parents' attention from
handling their own relationship problems.
The depth of this trance, taking on someone else's identity to
survive, can be seen in relationships. For example, many clients tell
me that they sound like their mother when they yell at their kids or
husband. Or, a husband will become just like his father in business.
I had a client recently who claimed, "I am a workaholic." I said,
"Are you a workaholic or did you fuse with your father who was a
workaholic?" He said, "I fused with my father." The child within
became Dad. The adult wants to spend time with his family. The
child that fused with Dad's workaholism won't let him. This case
was interesting because the father of my client was married to a
woman who had several emotional breakdowns and was institution-
alized. The father of my client became a workaholic to avoid seeing
and dealing with his spouse. Not surprisingly, the child inside my
client married a dysfunctional woman with severe emotional prob-
lems, and the other side of the child within became a workaholic all
outside of the observer's awareness. My client totally fused with
and, like a xerox machine the observer, made a duplicate copy of
Dad's trance.
This is another dark side of the inner child taking on Dad' s
identity. I've had clients who are depressed. I'll ask, "Are you
depressed, or did you take on your Mom/Dad's depression to help
Mom/Dad?" An observer created a child identity which thinks they
can help Mom or Dad by taking on their pain. The child takes on his
parents' pain with the hope of healing them. This occurs when the
child now believes they can heal others or make others feel better
Dis-connection • 57
because of their imagined power. This infantile grandiosity leaves
the child imagining power to help another, when they actually feel
powerless as children. Years later, they develop a healer trance,
imagining they can be responsible for taking away another's pain.
For example, I once knew a man who claimed to be this kind of
healer. Clients paid him to heal them and, amazingly, he, at times,
got results. The problem was that the client's pain almost always
came back. Why? Because, if a person is feeling pain, they must
take responsibility for their subjective reality. When I spoke to the
healer, he said that as a child he would imagine that being with his
dysfunctional father helped his father feel better. In fact, his father
would often times lighten-up around his son. Later in life the child
within imagined magical powers as a way to resist the powerless-
ness of his childhood. Hence, the age-regressed child within
hypnotized the adult into becoming a healer.
It needs to be noted that I am not discounting healers. I am,
however, suggesting that for a healing to take place, the person
being healed must be conscious, aware, and responsible for their
internal experience. If they are not responsible, and not willing to
make internal and external changes, the healing will be temporary
and will not last. If someone thinks someone else can take their pain,
they are in an inner-child identity and will probably be drawn to a
healer who is, also, in an age-regressed inner-child identity imag-
ining they can take another's pain.
In my life, my inner child always chose women who would
argue with me. ("I want a girl, just like the girl who married dear old
Dad"). After years of therapy and six years in a treatment facility (in
India called an Ashram), I was aware of the problem and could
interrupt the process. Still my inner child was working. One night,
my best friend, David took me to watch Sufi Dancing in Los
Angeles. About 75 people were there, some watchers, some doers.
Before the dance started, I saw a woman enter and in a moment it
was "Some enchanted evening, you may see a stranger..."
She asked David to introduce us, and this was the conversation.
David:"This is my friend Narayan (my name given
in India), he s from ... India."
58 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Woman:"Oh, I just saw the film Ghandi. It was
great."
Stephen:"I didn't like it." (She looked confused, so to
save the day I said,) "Well, for a long movie,
it really moved fast."
Woman:"Really? I thought it dragged."
Stephen:"Well, I guess you and I aren't going to agree
on anything."
Woman:"I don't even agree with you on that."
Needless to say, I saw the pattern of my inner child, interrupted
it, and this relationship lasted 10 seconds rather than 10 months or
10 years.
This is the power of attraction of the inner child. As an adult,
you are attracted to certain people. Actually, the overwhelming,
compulsive attraction is the inner child's attraction to another' s
inner child.
Very often, inner-child to inner-child connections are so strong
that the child within the adult adapts a spiritual philosophy like,
"This was meant to be," or "We are soul mates." Although this falls
under the trance of spiritualization, dis-connection and other trances
overlap and work in tandem.
As with all trances, fusion is created by a series of family
interactions. For example, an individual may be an "adult child of
an alcoholic" and had to take care of parents or siblings. They
experienced not being able to let go, daydream, fantasize, or even
play. Fear of possible catastrophic outcomes in the environment
cause the child to be overly responsible (for the non-functioning
parent). Thus, a hyper-vigilance trance.
I had a woman whose father was alcoholic and she always took
care of him. Her philosophy was, "I'll take care of him, so that he
can take care of me." She had to over-identify and watch every move
Dad made so that she could survive. The child had to create a hyper-
vigilant trance, watching Dad's every move, because he would
space out, forget things, etc. The child within the adult stayed frozen
Dis-connect-ion + 59
in time and married a man who was very disconnected and spaced
out. This was famil-(iar) to her inner child, whose dark side was
attracted to men with whom she had to be hyper-vigilant, as with
Dad. As a result, the child within the adult took over, never allowing
her a moment' s peace. Notice how her inner child had fused with
Dad so the inner child had two sides: a spaced out side and a hyper-
vigilant side. It is no wonder she was attracted to a disconnected
man. It was familiar.
The inner child forced her to shrink her focus of attention and
fuse with Dad and allowed her to be over-identified. This created
serious anxiety as a child and in her life with her husband, particu-
larly as the trance became more and more automatic. In other words,
as the observer sleeps, the trance works by itself outside individual
conscious control. It becomes an "automatic" trance.
Couples
Recently, I saw a couple for therapy in which the husband
disconnected. He was out-there and disconnected and she over-
identified. This problem emerges often in couples therapy. The
complaint from the wife, "He's at work, he's doing this, he's doing
that, I'm stuck with the kids. I'm here. He's there," He's discon-
nected from being here, and She' s over-identified with being here,
and she cannot disconnect and be there. During the therapy, I
discovered the father of this woman was an alcoholic. She handled
this in childhood by becoming the caretaker. She had to take care
of the situation, always be there, or identify, take care of her father,
her mother, the family. It was her job, so she identified and fused.
She had to stay here, glued. If she didn't, who knew what would
happen? She perceived her father might crack up the car; she had to
feed the kids, be responsible, etc.
The observer handled the situation by creating an inner child
identity which utilized the trance of over-identification. As I started
doing therapy with her, she became terrified at the prospect of
letting go. People who dis-connect, on the other hand are terrified
if asked to be here. They will be frightened because as children they
handled life by going away. It was too painful to deal with the reality
of their family. My client experienced fear. If she went there, even
for a minute, she heard a voice saying, "Where are you going? We
60 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
need you to take care of Daddy." If the husband who disconnected
stayed here, the experience was equally awful. The reality was
bombarding and overwhelming for him.
Complementary Trances of
the Inner Child
Often spouses have inner children who have trances that
complement one another. In the former example, she over-identi-
fied and he disconnected.
We will explore complementary trance patterns of the inner
children within the adult who pick familiar partners.
Oppositional Trances
Age RegressionPseudo-orientation in Time (Futurizing)
AmnesiaHypermnesia
Hyper-Sensitivity  Sensory Distortion (Numbing-out)
Dissociation (Disconnection)Over-Identification (Fusion)
Hypnotic Dreaming Over-identification
Negative Hallucination (Blocking-out)Positive Hallucination Illusioning)
Wolinsky, Trances People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychology., p. 113.
It's clear that we all disconnect or over-identify in many
different ways. It is important, in alcoholic cases particularly, for
the symptom to be maintained; alcoholics have to disconnect and
"go away." It can be said that alcohol and drug abuse is a way to use
substances to disconnect. In order for the trance of drinking not to
occur, de-hypnosis can be employed. Without the trance, the
behavior has a more difficult time, automatically repeating itself
outside your control.
The outward manifestation of alcoholism is drinking. Dis-
connection holds that problem like glue. If disconnection were not
present, excessive drinking would be more difficult.
Dis-connection • 61
The question also arises, "Who drinks?" The fused side of the
inner child, the child who fuses with the alcoholic Mom or Dad. I
once had a client who handled stress with heavy drinking. I asked
him, "Who drank in your family?" He said, "Dad." I had him carry
around a picture of his father. Whenever he drank, he had to take out
the picture, put it on the table and "toast" Dad saying, "Thank you,
Dad, for teaching me how to handle stress." This exaggerated the
inner child's fusion.
A symptom can only be a problem if there is some kind of
trance. When a person is "being here now," there is no trance.
Actually, we can say no problem can exist without a trance. This can
be seen as the real meaning of the word transcending. In other
words, trance ending a problem means trance-ending, when a
trance ends and there is no problem you are in no-trance. This is the
end of trance, hence, trance-ending.
I know people that look directly at me but are not with me at all.
There is a film over their eyes. Watch their eyes and notice if a film
comes over them. Recognize this is a clue your partner is dis-
connecting. This film over his eyes indicates he is watching an old
film or movie and not being here now. In therapy, I might suggest
something to intentionally create the trance you are having. I
PRESCRIBE THE CREATION OF THE TRANCE THAT CLI-
ENTS ARE ALREADY CREATING. If someone has a film over
her eyes, she is watching a movie inside which prevents her from
experiencing now. Trances act like glue for problems. Signals, that
a trance may be occurring in yourself, are holding your breath or
tightening your muscles.
An example is a client who weighed 300 pounds. I identified an
obesity problem (see how brilliant I am). In order for him to
maintain his symptom, he disconnected. I suggested he go "over
there," and his body froze hard (Sensory Distortion, Chapter 13). I
suggested he make it get even harder to give him control over his
trance. All of a sudden, he looked at me and said I was a "big cloud"
to him. He could barely see me. This "not seeing" was a blocking-
out trance, ( See Chapter 8).
Disconnection occurs in people with migraine headaches or
other types of physical pain. They have isolated specific physical
pain to individual parts of their body. In order for a problem to be
a problem, the headache must be disconnected from the whole body.
62 ta The Dark Side of the inner Child
Complimentary Trances
I recently had a case of a woman whose father would lock her
in a dry well. As a result, her body was still feeling pain years later.
I understood experiencing the pain of 25 years ago was partly due
to the inner child' s trance of identification. Consequently, I taught
her the deep trance of disconnection, its complement. Development
of the complement of deep trance facilitates or adds water to the
glue that holds the problem structure together, diluting the glue, and
often times freeing the problem.
The Next Step
Handling Disconnection
and Over-identification
1. Identify which style of disconnecting the inner child is
using.
   1. Not owning trance
   2. Disappearing trance
   3. I am not my body trance
   4. Fusion trance
2. Notice whether it occupies physical space, and/or
mental space.
3. If your inner child is having you spacing out or discon-
necting, create it fully, continuing to breathe.
Intentionally tighten your muscles and create the dis-
connection. Tighten your muscles many times, until
you have taken charge of the disconnected portion.
4. Exaggerate. For over-identification and dis-connect-
ing, create the over-identification and muscle tightening.
Just as above, the process will awaken the observer.
5. Notice that you are the observer/creator of one of the
problem trances of the inner child.
6. Practice creating and stopping creating the trances of
the inner child.
Disconnection • 63
Summary
To identify and notice that the inner child is hypnotizing you in
present time by disconnecting or over-identifying is the major
solvent to dissolving the automatic processes of the inner child.
Learning to live without trances, and that we are the observer and
the creator of our subjective experience, dissolves trances of the
inner child. This is the end of trance and is trance-ending.


.7  
Inner Dialogue: The
Voices in Your Head
Self-talk, or inner dialogue, is created by a series of interactions
between the child and his or her parents. As with fusion, the
observer takes the voices of both parents and places them in the
inner child' s head. In this way, a child takes the parents along inside
of himself. As time goes by, the talk goes on as automatic chatter in
the mind. Spend a minute noticing the voices telling you things
inside your head, and notice if you can discern whose voices they
are (mother, father, teacher, brother, sister, etc.). The dark side of
the inner child limits the adult by continuing to talk to him or her
self, often forecasting behavioral inevitabilities ("It will never
work"), or suggesting what he or she should or shouldn't have done
("You shouldn't have said what you feel").
In cognitive therapy, "shoulds" are considered a thinking
distortion.
"In this distortion, you operate from a list of inflexible rules
of how you and others should act. The rules are right and
66 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
indisputable. Any deviation from your particular values are
bad. As a result, you are often in a position of judging and
finding fault." (McKay, 1981:24)
In Gestalt therapy, "shoulds" are considered parental injunc-
tions and are referred to as the "top dog." The child who "wants" is
the underdog. In this situation, the child is in a double bind. If he
does what he wants, the result is guilt, if he does what he should (the
parental voice), he feels frustrated at not getting what he wants.
The key thing to note is that the inner child has fused with
"should" voices that actually belong to the parents.
Handling the Shoulds
Step I:Notice that the should voice is occurring.
Step II: Notice where in the body the voice is coming
from.
Step III: Notice whose voice it is, Mom, Dad, brother,
sister, etc.
Step IV: Intentionally create the voice several times and
experience the voice as energy.
Step V: Notice you are the observer observing the voices..
Inner Dialogues can be voices inside, consciously or uncon-
sciously, that the inner child repeats to herself, creating problem
states. In this case, they fuse the adult in the child trance. These are
two sides of the inner child: (1) the child, and (2) the parent, both
living inside the adult in present time.
A re-enforcement of the inner dialogue occurs within the
family. In this system, the spouse or family can say or re-enforce the
inner child's self-talk, thereby reinforcing her problems. For ex-
ample, an inner child phrase, "What' s wrong with me?" can be
reinforced when the family or the spouse says, "What's wrong with
you?"
Inner Dialogue • 67
Self-talk is not always verbal; it can be nonverbal, or silent. The
individual can infer or intuit through silence or nonverbal cuing. As
an example, a parent that is silent, never enquiring about the child' s
well being, might deliver the message, "Nobody is interested in
you." Self-talk is always part of a problem and is implicit in many
trance states.
Where does Self-Talk Come From?
An unprogrammed person, or a child before all the beliefs and
ideas are suggested by the parents, is a pure observer or witness to
life. The observedust observes; things happen or don't happen and
the open blank slate of the observer is just present. The beauty of this
observer is that there is no judgment, such as this is bad or that is
good. Also, the child places no evaluations on things, such as this
is better than that. Further, the observer places no significance on
what it observes, such as, because this happens, it means this about
me or about who I am.
The observer however, does begin to make creative decisions.
First, this is my body, and that is their body. Later on, the parents
begin to reward and punish, giving the child their judgements,
evaluations, and significances about what life is, should be, could
be, or what things mean. The observer becomes the creator and
adapts by pushing the record button, tape-recording the parents
voices, and taking a picture of a time frozen child who will hold onto
these voices. For example, a parent may say to the child, "You
should never trust people." The observerlcreator takes a photocopy
(picture) and creates a child within who records these voices. Many
of the voices we have in our heads about who or what we are, are
the taped duplications of our parents' voices held within the frozen
inner child.
The observer has a blank audio tape with the record button on.
The tape is filled up and has an auto-reverse, then the play button is
pushed to hear the taped voices inside your head. These are the
voices that the observer has recorded, they are being re-played by
the child inside the adult. These voices can cause fear, anxiety or
depression. But whose voices are these? The observer tapes the
voices and they are played through the speaker of the inner child,
68 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child  
then the voices of the parents are played again and again automati-
cally. Years later, the inner child within the adult runs the machine.
By creating the voices intentionally, the observer awakens to the
voices it (the observer) has duplicated and thus takes back the power
from the inner child. Once the observer is awakened and takes
responsibility for making the tape and playing it through the inner
child, the observer can turn off or stop creating the tape loop.
Inner dialogue is a trance that was created and allowed to
persist. Self talk was formed during a series of interactions (parents
to child) and was designed by the parents to create an altered state
of consciousness in the child. For example, a mother might suggest
that her son or daughter be a certain way. The child then incorpo-
rates Mom' s voice inside to remind himself how to be an adult, how
to act. The suggestions were offered by the parents, siblings, etc.,
and were taped as truths. Problems arise when these voices are still
talking, even though present circumstances do not fit the instruc-
tions given by the mother in past time.
Another illustration of self-talk is this: A child is told he doesn't
understand how to operate the television. The child is offered
suggestions by the parent, like "You don't understand," which the
child decides to incorporate into his taped belief system. The child
generalizes the belief about TVs to other mechanical devices, like
cars, VCRs, computers. The observer creates an inner child which
fuses with the suggestions made from the parent. He takes the
suggestions on, as his own. Years later, the self-talk continues, and
as the adult attempts to fix something, the inner child pushes the
play button and a voice says, " I don't understand mechanical
things."
The child within, when involved with mechanics, plays the
taped message. The child within experiences the "I don't under-
stand" associated with machines, along with frustration as its
outcome or the altered state it produces. Machines trigger the
experience, and the child as an adult goes into the "I don't under-
stand" trance.
Principle I: An experience, once occurring following a
pleasant outcome, will become part of the person's belief
system exactly as it is.
Inner Dialogue 4) 69
child struggles through it and succeeds, "See, if you work hard, you
can do anything." The child has received his reward and approval
and begins to "work hard" obsessively to do everything to get
approval. Here, the hypnotic suggestion "work hard" can become
frozen, an external trigger like money or approval, which then
triggers "work hard and receive approval." This is placed on
automatic. The resulting experience is one of feeling driven and yet
experiencing it is never quite enough.
Another style of self-talk which overlaps is "fusion" and will
only be discussed in brief.
An observer who creates a child identity which tries and fails
at a task several times and hears Dad say, "This is how you do it,"
can "become" or fuse with the Dad and decide, "I'll be Daddy, and
it will all work out." Of course, they begin to be so much like Daddy,
they can lose themselves.
If the child resists Daddy, (rebellious boy), fusion takes place.
The experience becomes "always fighting father."
This creates Principle II: When a fused identity is resisted,
the resisting identity (rebellious boy) must be formed to
protect the individual from the fused identity, namely Dad.
"I must resist Dad" gets created. This appears as the only
way an individual can survive.
Now you have two inner-child identities fighting one another.
One is called "I' m like Dad," the other "I want to be me" (rebellious
boy). This is experienced as an internal conflict. These two oppos-
ing inner-child identities keep the conflict in place.
Principle III: The resisting identity, when not in conflict
with the fused identity, "Dad," will tend to fight the fused
identity "Dad" outside themselves, whether present or
imagined, and resist the imaginary Dad (fused identity).
This is clearly the trance of trance-ference. Transference,
which is a major part of the psychoanalytic model of Sigmund
Freud, briefly states that the client projects the parent on the
therapist and then treats the therapist like Mom or Dad.
In this example, the rebel side of the inner child trance-fers
Mom/Dad on to an authority figure, whether it is there or not, and
begins to resist the authority figure. The difference is, in this model,
70 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
the adult does not transfer or project Mom and Dad onto an authority
figure; it is the inner child who is the culprit, trance-ferring images
of Mommy and Daddy on people and acting like a little kid
expecting to be taken care of. Transference is a trance of the inner
child because the child goes into a trance and transfers Mom and
Dad on others. This makes present time into past time, hence,
trance-ference. For de-hypnosis to occur the observer, who has
been asleep, must wake-up and take responsibility for this internal
conflict.
As an example, the rebel (resisting Dad) identity called "I want
to be me," will imagine, experience, or expect someone in authority
to give her a hard time. It appears as though the person is attempting
to be herself, while the inner child is actually reacting to a trans-
ferred image of Mom or Dad. Stated another way, the fused Father
is projected or trance-(erred. The rebel (I want to be me) identity
stays inside or vice versa. This explains why many people automati-
cally assume that authority figures will push them around and they
begin to fight them before that actually occurs.
How does this apply to self-talk? The child becomes the Father
by duplicating the father' s voice through a series of interactions
with Father; the child identifies and fuses, through verbal dialogue,
or non-verbal body posture, his looks, expressions, feelings and
even tapes of the father's voice. If the child chooses to resist his
father, he reflects a rebel identity. The rebel identity only creates
and gives self-talk to itself in reaction to the father, which is now
internalized. Thus, the inner and outer dialogue keep going. The
inner child has two parts, rebel and Dad. If he is the rebel, he trance-
fers Dad on others; if he is Dad, he projects the rebel on others.
The Next Step
Handling Inner Dialogue Trances
Step I:Notice your self-talk exactly, and write it down:
Examples:
Don't trust people.
Don't be close.
Don't touch me.
Inner Dialogue 4 71
Step II: Ask whose voices these are?
   1. Mom
   2. Dad
   3. Uncle
   4. Aunt
   5. Teacher
   6. Brother
   7. Sister
   8. Grandparent, etc.
Step III:
   1. Intentionally create the voices.
   2. Next, move the voices into the left ear.
   3. Move the voices into the right ear.
Step IV: Notice if there are any feelings associated with a
voice. Write them down.
Step V: Practice turning the voices (tapes) on and off,
until you get mastery over the taped voices.
Step VI: Observe each voice, and notice that you, as the
observer, exist with or without the voices.
This is important to note, because often the only way a child can
exist as a separate individual is to resist Mom or Dad. This rebel or
outsider identity gets formed. This is difficult to give up because the
person imagines that without the rebel or outsider, he would not
exist, be annihilated, or disappear. Once the observer is established,
letting go of old identities becomes easier. This is because there is
a you beyond the rebel or outsider with whom you can identify.
Conclusion
It cannot be over emphasized, in either working with yourself
or working with another, that inner dialogue needs to be identified
and handled. Inner dialogue is the cornerstone of reality formations
and affective states. Within fusion, or reaction to fusion, unless the
individual has a choice of internal messages or dialogue, he can
72 4 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
never experience freedom from prior family trances, especially the
trance of trance-ference. Furthermore, although the observer made
the tapes of mom or dad, they are now playing through the age-
regressed inner child. The observer is asleep and takes no
responsibility for this. By developing observation, the observer
wakes-up, and the trance of the inner-dialogue is trance-ended.
.8  
Blocking-out: Not
Seeing What Is There
Blocking-out is a trance state that consists of not seeing what is
there (visual), and/or not hearing what is said (auditory). As with all
trances, blocking-out is developed by the observer to protect,
support, and maintain the child's survival, and to preserve his
integrity as an individual self.
The blocking-out phenomenon becomes a problem as this
trance of the inner child becomes more and more independent,
operating autonomously while the observer sleeps. The inner child
continues not to see, by fogging-out or blanking-out what is there.
This worked in the family context and continues on automatic, even
in present time situations where it is not called for.
For example, imagine a little girl who had to fog out when her
father sexually assaulted or battered her mother. Years later, even
though the context has changed, she fogs out appropriate requests
for intimacy from a safe partner or repeatedly chooses a partner who
is a batterer. What must be understood is that, although the fogging
74 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
out helped the child survive, it did not work 100%. Some part of the
child saw the assault. This creates an inner child with two sides, side
one fogs out, and side two sees the assault. The time frozen-inner
child automatically re-creates the trance that worked in the past, not
seeing. Carrying it over into present time, the adult is simulta-
neously attracted to a famil-(iar) scene, battering. In the former
case, even though the adult wants to make contact, the inner child
keeps blocking-out. Ideally, blocking-out should be like a sun
screen. If I go to the beach and am able to choose the degree of
exposure I want by picking the right level of sun screen, I am at
choice. But, if I can't get the protection I want, I am at the mercy of
the sun, or the dark side of an out-of-control, wounded inner child.
It should be noted again, that women who choose men that
batter either saw Mom being battered or were battered, themselves.
Thus the trance of blocking-out is not a solution. The child within
is attracted to the familiar scene, even though the adult knows better;
and the observer sleeps.
Interpretive Distortion
One example of kinesthetic blocking-out, (See Chapter 13,
Sensory Distortion) can occur in an interpretive experience. For
example, in cases of child abuse the child might at first experience
the abuse painfully. As the experience is repeated again and again,
the child might begin to interpret physical or emotional abuse as
pleasurable, affectionate or loving. Interpretative distortion consti-
tutes a subtle form of kinesthetic blocking-out, not feeling what is
there. This interpretation explains an individual' s addictions to
emotionally and physically abusive relationships. It is no surprise
that children who were sexually abused either abuse others or get
abused as adults. The child within assumes that forced sex and abuse
are love, affection, or worse yet, the "way it is."
I had a client who, for several years of her marriage, was raped
by her husband. Her gynecologist asked her if she had been raped,
because there was so much vaginal tearing. Although she didn't
enjoy the experience, she interpreted it as "the way it is."
In transactional analysis negative strokes are considered better
than no strokes. This is a particularly difficult process in that the
Blocking Out + 75
blocking-out is interpreted as enjoyable or as how it should be, and
is therefore not questioned, nor acknowledged.
I saw a man once whose father was a minister in Southern Ohio.
His father quite often would bring the boy down to the basement.
There he would have him pull down his pants, and spank him. The
boy felt incredible pain, but eventually interpreted the sensations as
pleasurable. Years later, he was involved in sado-masochist sex.
Upon entering therapy, he felt that his interest in being physically
hurt, which gave him sexual pleasure, was going too far, i.e., he had
put himself in life-threatening situations. After many sessions,
images began to appear in his memory. While his father was
spanking him, his father would masturbate. Here the child within
blocked out the pain of the spanking and interpreted it as pleasur-
able, because it was the only way he seemed to get love and affection
from Dad. Years later, this generalized to the only way to get sexual
love and affection: by being spanked or hurt physically.
Blocking-out occurs when the development or survival of the
child is dependent upon not seeing, hearing, feeling or even know-
ing (see Chapter 12, Amnesia) what is occurring. Blocking-out is
created by the child in the family context by a series of interactions
as the child develops. Blocking-out can be continued by the family
and later the spouse. For example, an alcoholic man who abuses his
wife might suggest she block out his drinking or abuse. This could
be a continuation of the suggestions of her parents that saved her as
a child, "Don't see the drinking."
Often times, the observer models the inner child within her
mother, and creates a duplicate inner child within the adult, not
seeing her father drinking. This child assumes that's how one
handles drinking, the way mom modeled; by blocking-out. The
child models Mom's trance. It is no wonder that as an adult she will
not see her husband drinking and might even enable him to drink
more. Often in therapy I ask clients, "Who was the model for that
trance?", or "Who demonstrated this technique of survival? i.e.,
blocking-out." Stated more simply the blocking-out phenomenon
can be put on automatic and pops up, has its own life. It is a once
valuable trance created by the child for survival, or imitated by the
observer by modeling the parent, and carried into adult life. This
limits other possible experiences and creates unpleasant behavioral
outcomes. The old habit of blocking-out is so powerful that the
76 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
individual cannot understand his confusion and pain, which come
from interpersonal relationships in present time.
How people construct their reality is central in understanding
blocking-out. By creating the fog, cloud, a feeling of distance, the
problem is maintained. Why? Because the blocking-out strategy is
not 100% effective. Some part of the child sees the abuse and
chooses people to recreate the abuse, so the other side of the child
can block it out! Questions to ask yourself are, "By not seeing what
is there, how do I deny the problem? How do I participate in picking
abusive relationships? What trance(s) is connected with or associ-
ated with my particular problem?"
Every addictive person I've worked with uses blocking-out. In
order for their symptom to remain, they have to fog-out the world
as they did as children. This symptom can emerge as an auditory
blocking-out, a visual blocking-out, a kinesthetic blocking-out
(sensory distortion), or a not knowing blocking-out (amnesia/
denial). The important element is recognizing you do NOT see,
know, feel, or hear what' s occurring. In cases of drug and alcohol
abuse, the substance helps to intensify the blocking-out. In other
words, the psychological ability to block out is not strong enough.
Therefore, drugs must be employed.
For example, if a client says, "I know you're judging me," his
inner child is both blocking-out and catastrophizing. They are not
seeing me in present time. If I say, "You look good today," the client
can block hearing the good things. Notice if blocking-out helps you
to avoid particular experiences, either by blocking parts of yourself
or by blocking-out the world.
I treated an alcoholic woman who would block out as a child,
in her family setting, in order to survive. Later in life, she continued
blocking, which affected her relationships. This is no surprise.
Blocking was her trance of choice, or her drug of choice. Her
drinking problem had to contain elements of this phenomenon. The
only way she could drink was to not see the world.
As mentioned earlier, one side of the inner child blocked out the
father's drinking, while the other side saw the drinking. She
naturally will pick a relationship where either she fogs out the
person's drinking or, she drinks and the other person fogs out her
drinking. Notice how the inner children of both people have
complimentary trances. For therapists what is noteworthy is that, as
Blocking Out 4 77
you approach the drinking side of the inner child, the fog gets
thicker. Why? Because the two work together, the fog and the
drinking must be looked at as one function of the inner child.
Blocking---out Your Body
There is a form of blocking-out that is similar to retroflection.
This phenomenon can best be understood by a case example.
Recently I was working with a woman who was an incest survivor.
The pain was so intense that she tried to block out her father. This
was ineffective, so she retroflected the block on herself. Simply
stated, she attempted to fog out her father, and when that did not
work, she fogged out herself in an attempt to become invisible.
When she came to me in therapy, she told me that when she looked
in the mirror, she could not see her body. It was fogged out! I have
seen this in many cases of child abuse where there is an attempt to
be invisible and fog out one's body. The child cannot make the
perpetrator invisible, so he freezes himself, making his body invis-
ible.
Therapeutic Approach
My strategy is to ask clients to look at me, which interrupts their
child trance and starts a present time experience. As they look at me,
they don't feel lonely. There is no blocking-out occurring with me.
If she is connecting with me, and really connects, how could she
experience loneliness? In present time, we are just here. If she
blocks me out and goes into her child trance, she experiences
loneliness because she is her inner child, which is not in present time
but in past time. Stated more simply, you will feel lonely if you are
operating out of an inner-child identity trance, because you are not
in present time seeing, hearing, feeling, knowing and being. The
inner child cuts off present-time contact and feels the loneliness of
no contact in past time.
Principle IV: In order for the inner child to shift from a
present time experience of self to a past time experience,
the inner child must cut off present time contact, hence
loneliness, alienation, feeling misunderstood, etc.
78 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
In the earlier example, the sexually abused woman is blocking-
out in her relationships. When she makes love with a man, she opens
her eyes and blocks the man out. She does not see this man, who
states, "I want to be your friend and an occasional lover." He is being
very clear about what he wants. She is blocking-out his communi-
cation visually and auditorially. She fantasizes, "No, he can't be
saying that, he really means ...."
Notice how blocking-out and fantasizing work so well in
tandem. In the above scenario, "I know he means something else,"
she experiences no variability in her trance; rather, the inner child' s
trance, created by the observer, keeps the present-time adult stuck.
The Next Step
Handling Blocking-out
Approach I:
   1. Identify.
The basic principle is to identify and allow the blocking-out
to be there fully. This means to literally invite the phenom-
enon to reach its full fruition. In other words, if you're
fogging out, don't push through or resist the fog. Rather
breathe, and allow the fog to manifest. See the fog com-
pletely, its size, shape, color, etc.
   2. Expand.
Expand the experience of the fog, clouding, blanking, by
making it bigger.
   3. Differences.
Make it different, by moving it around, change its color,
shape, size, smell or feeling.
   4. Differentiating.
Vary its structure. As a general rule, by varying the compo-
nents of the trance, it is possible to take charge of its coming
and going. This takeover by the observer/creator removes
Blocking Out 79
the trance from an automatic response to a conscious, self-
generated response. In differentiation, notice color,
transparency, translucency, and opaqueness. This causes
the trance to shift from being one solid mass to a varied
experience, with different integrity levels.
Approach II:
Answer these questions on a separate piece of paper. Keep asking
the questions, writing down whatever pops up, until nothing else
pops up.
   1. Where is the inner child in your body?
   2. Ask the inner child, "What am I willing to see?" Write
down the inner child's answers.
   3. Ask the inner child, "What are you (the inner child)
unwilling to see?" Write down the inner child' s re-
sponse.
   4. Ask the inner child, "What are you willing to hear?"
Write down the inner child' s answers.
   5. Ask the inner child, "What are you unwilling to hear?"
Write down the inner child's responses.
Approach I11:
   1. Ask the inner child, "What did you (the inner child)
decide to see? Write down the inner child' s answers.
   2. Ask the inner child, "What did you (the inner child)
decide to not see?" Write down the inner child's
answers.
   3. Ask the inner child, "What did you (the inner child)
decide to hear?" Write down the inner child's answers.
   4. Ask the inner child, "What did you (the inner child)
decide to not hear?" Write down the inner child's
answers.
Observe:
   1. Observe that you are the witness of the inner child and
his/her trances.
   2. Continue to watch the inner child, adding awareness to
the process.
80 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
3. Notice how observing adds the solvent of awareness to
the inner-child identity. This process creates space or
distance between you, the observer of the inner child,
and his/her trance.
Conclusion
Blocking-out is a subtle and often unnoticed trance. Once
noticed, the observer wakes-up, interpersonal communications
alters, and an individual can see, feel, hear, know and be who he is
in the present. Awareness and observation are the major tools used
to take apart the inner child's I-dentity and his/her trances.
•9  
Illusioning: Seeing,
Hearing andFeeling
What Is Not There
I was trying to catch your eye,
I thought that you were trying to hide
I was swallowing my pain
I was swallowing my pain
"Jealous Boy" John Lennon
Here John Lennon describes his illusioning. The inner
child imagines his wife is trying to hide; and that she
doesn't love him anymore. He age regresses and feels pain.
In other words his illusioning of Yoko trying to hide,
created a painful trance for the adult in present time.
82 0 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Illusion: a false mental image or conception which may be
a mis-interpretation of a real appearance or may be some-
thing imagined. (American College Dictionary, pg 602)
Selective Trances
The inner child sees past time, imagining it is present time, thus
"illusions," seeing things now that were there then. In this way, the
inner child within the adult reads into things now, things that were
said then, feels things now that were felt then, but are not actually
happening now, or hears things now that were said then. This dark
side of the frozen inner child sets up internal, subjective experi-
ences, some of which are based on present time information, but
some of which are just free floating illusions from the past, that
confuse, interfere with, and misinterpret present time reality.
In selective trances, the child within selects what was, or
occurred in the past, and overlays it on the present or future. For
example, a child whose father was dysfunctional is told by his
mother (the hypnotist) how much Dad cares because he remem-
bered a birthday, rather than acknowledging that Dad's been
drinking every day this month and just happened to do one nice
thing. Years later, the child within the adult marries an alcoholic and
selects the one nice event and magnifies it. This selective trance
mirrors the earlier trance suggested by Mom.
In illusioning, what is seen is not there, or more commonly,
what is there is magnified as if it were the whole picture. It is similar
to its complement, blocking-out, in that both trances require a
shrinking of the focus of attention. In the above case, Mom is
accentuating the positive (the remembered birthday) and pretend-
ing that that is all or most of reality.
Here we see the joint use of illusioning (selective seeing) and
blocking-out (ignoring what is there). Many therapists suggest that
the solution lies in focusing on the positive, by asking questions
like, "What does he/she do that works for you?" The problem is that
often the whole is ignored in favor of a small part in the hope that
illusioning will promote a cure. The therapist, while in this mode of
thinking, shrinks his focus of attention to see what works, and tries
to accentuate the positive. The therapist asks the client to go into the
illusioning 44 83
same trance the therapist is using in order to feel productive. Often,
this form of therapy attracts a practitioner with a selective inner-
child trance. The client and therapist go into a mutual trance.
in cognitive therapy this is called "filtering."
"This distortion is characterized by a sort of tunnel vision
looking at only one element of a situation to the exclusion
of everything else."
"Each of us has our own particular tunnel to look through.
Some of us are hyper-sensitive to anything suggesting loss,
and blind to any indication of gain." (Mckay, 1981:19)
Wonderfulizing or Awfulizing
Wonderfulizing relates to the former example, in which Mom
selected Dad' s remembrance of the child' s birthday to the exclusion
of the daily drinking. Awfulizing is explained this way.
"By the very process of filtering you magnify and awfulize
your thoughts. When you pull negative thoughts out of
context ... you make them larger and more awful than they
are." (McKay, 1981:19)
For example, a woman I was working with was molested by her
uncle. During the process, her inner child stayed focused on his left
eye. Years later, the time-frozen inner child would project and
illusion the man she was with as her uncle by looking at his left eye.
Awfulizing is a thinking distortion under the heading of illusioning
or hallucination in trance land, or filtering in cognitive therapy land.
(See Appendix, Trigger).
As with all trance states, an illusion was created by the observer
to help protect the child from the strains of family interactions.
Illusions that initially had a specific, external trigger (like the
uncle), become problems as the trance is generalized to all men.
This process is stimulated by the inner child focusing on the trigger,
the left eye.
Another example is the woman who was molested as a child.
The adult goes into a "don't trust" trance, even in an environment
that is pleasant. Illusioning also is witnessed within families or
84 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
couples that co-create survival illusions together, keeping the
family together.
For example, a dysfunctional family might continually illusion
themselves as fine, upstanding citizens and present themselves to
the community that way. In many cases of incest or child abuse, the
family creates this world view with a "Father Knows Best" illusion.
In this television show, Jim was the perfect dad, little Kathy was a
good girl, and Bud was a mischievous son. In real life, however, Jim
was alcoholic and had several failed attempts at suicide. Kathy was
sexually abused, and Bud had a drug addiction problem. Unfortu-
nately, family members are asked to block out the uncomfortable
and opt for the illusion of the positive image. This concept of the
power of thoughts or the power of positive thinking will be dis-
cussed in Chapter 14, Spiritualization.
To form illusions, the child must shrink her focus of attention
to a very small part of total reality, which part becomes magnified
and greatly distorted. The remedy for seeing what is not there, is
seeing what is there.
Illusioning, Futurizing, Fantasizing
Often, trances work together to create an illusion. A woman
client reported she had been talking with "beings," guides that came
to see her. They told her of events in the future, and that she was a
chosen person. People would admire her and were waiting for her
to become almost like Christ. She was further informed that she
would have thousands of followers. These were very strong illu-
sions. The problem at this point was she felt very anxious, because
she was not ready to become like Christ. The client was reluctant to
tell anyone of these illusions for fear she would be thought crazy. As
we talked of these beings or guides, she became very young, and I
could see in front of me the little girl inside the grown woman. The
adult had become the age-regressed inner child. The observer had
created this illusioning as a child because her home life had been
intolerable. This is how she protected herself. In other examples of
illusioning, people imagine a Cinderella story in which some
millionaire will marry them and take them away from all this, take
care of them, give them everything they need, give them undying
illusioning • 85
love, attention, etc. People also envision being President, a baseball
star, football hero, or a movie star. This ability to create illusions is
how children remove themselves and disperse the reality of family
experiences.
Case I explained: The client who created the illusion of being like
Christ did so to help her survive as a child. The child' s illusion might
have simply ended. She might have switched to an illusion of herself
as a school teacher. But these patterns of illusioning and futurizing
often escalate, making the illusions solid. Hence, as an adult, the
child within the woman experiences beings or guides coming to her.
She is unable to sleep at night. She is waiting for the prophecies to
come true. The illusions developed in childhood had become very
strong.
Erickson' s story of a man in a mental institution who thinks he
is Jesus and sits waiting for his disciples also demonstrates this
solidifying of illusions. The man/Jesus was so convinced that no
therapists could talk him out of the trance. The story has it that
Erickson utilized his trance to make a shift in his behavior. Erickson
allegedly went over to the man and said, "I hear you are a carpenter."
The Jesus/man is now in a double bind. If he says "no," then he's not
Jesus. If he says "yes," then he doesn't know what will happen. He
said "yes". Erickson said, "Come with me. There is some carpentry
work that needs to be done in the new wing of the hospital." I don't
know the conclusion to this story, but many of Erickson's stories
seem to end with Erickson's illusion of health; and "He got married
and had three children."
In the development of illusions, the greater the stress in life the
stronger the illusions. Illusions can be sensory, auditory, or visual:
seeing something that is not said, or hearing something that is not
there, or feeling something that is not there.
Case 2: Upon my return from India, I was looking for an office in
Albuquerque. One week before I arrived, a therapist had rented
space from my doctor friend who owned a building. When I met the
therapist who was renting the office, he looked uncomfortable
learning I was a therapist looking for an office. He told my secretary,
"His energy is so aggressive I can just feel it." Another doctor in the
office said, "Wow, you feel great; I heard you just got back from
86 o The Dark Side of the Inner Child
India; maybe we could meditate together some time." Who was
feeling things that weren't there? I don't know, but certainly each
inner child illusioned a different experience of "my energy." The
therapist felt threatened and, hence, "my energy" was aggressive,
the doctor wanted a friend to meditate with so, "my energy" felt
great. The inner child can illusion and project it on a situation or
person, and subjectively make it feel as though it is true. Each inner
child determined his experience of my energy through his own
needs. This is a form of illusioning, feeling what is not there, seeing
and defining things as we need them to be seen and defined. My first
teacher was the noted industrial psychologist Dr. Frederick Herzberg.
Herzberg would sum it up this way, "We define things the way we
need them to be defined."
Remedy of illusioning: Check it out with the other person. A reality
check to see where the other person is coming from helps to
determine if you are illusioning. This requires, however, a willing-
ness to take responsibility for your trance-ferred feelings. It also
requires you to look at yourself, rather than at another, as the creator
of your experience.
A goal in therapy is to understand that the child within is
illusioning. Look at it developmentally. In the case where the
woman was to become Christ, the illusion of the child within
began as the adult described her illusions. She began to look
young, three or four years old. She was already in her age-
regressed-child trance. The only way the small child could
handle the bombardment she had to deal with was for the ob-
server to develop a trance called illusioning, futurizing, and
fantasizing. The child said, "Someday, it's going to be better."
A similar example might be a young boy who wanted to be a
professional football player, but by the time he was 13, had given
it up because of feedback from the world, i.e. he didn't make the
team. He then wanted to be a basketball player. Since he was too
short, he gave that up. He accepted feedback in present time a
connection to the world, and integrated. When a person is in present
time, he can allow and integrate feedback from the world. The
individual will let go of illusions.
Lack of feedback solidifies illusions. When the child cuts off
feedback (family or world) to survive, illusions become more solid
Illusioning • 87
and the intensity of the need not to see the family situation increases.
Children often imagine stardom, but if they stay connected to the
world in present time, they know when they can't play the guitar
(feedback), and can't be Eric Clapton. In more severe cases, there
is no feedback loop. Instead, the child goes into a child-to-child
trance, cut off from present-time feedback (can't playguitar), and,
years later, feels pain.
Principle V: An observer relating to the world makes
trances trans-lent and part of growing up. If the child does
not shift to the feedback from the world because of the
horror of a dysfunctional family, the child shifts to a child-
to-child trance. Years later the child within hypnotizes the
adult. This creates the adult' s illusions.
Many people have illusions about being a movie or rock and roll
star. This seems to be quite common. This is a way the child resists
experiences in the family that are too painful to integrate at the time.
Problems arise when the illusions become solid, and interpersonal
feedback is cut off. For example, I wanted to play basketball for the
Boston Celtics. By 13, I realized that I was going to be too small. I
then illusioned being a coach. Soon I saw that I didn't have those
skills and moved on to find where my skills were. This is a
developmental process. If I had become obsessed with playing with
Larry Bird and couldn't even give it up when I wasn't drafted, I
might have experienced depression.
In the woman-who-was-Christ example, I asked the client to
imagine that the guides who came to see her and the voices she heard
were actually coming from the child inside her. I asked, "How
would you feel if this is true?" She said, "Whew, relieved." She
comfortably saw the illusions were coming from inside of her. She
felt relieved. No anxiety. The important idea to note is that trances
are a continuum from solid to liquid. We all use trances. Her trance
wasn't bad, just more solid than mine. In my case I let go of the
desire to be a basketball hero, integrating interpersonal feedback. In
contrast, her developmental illusions solidified because she cut off
interpersonal feedback.
I saw a film in the early 70s directed by Roman Polansky called
Repulsion, which demonstrates illusioning. Part of the film is shot
from the viewpoint of a young girl who is supposed to be a "paranoid
88 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
schizophrenic." In one scene, her older sister is making sandwiches
for them. The kitchen looks about 10 feet by 10 feet. When you see
the room through the paranoid schizophrenic woman' s eyes, it
looks about 6 feet high by 4 feet, almost like a box. Next, there is a
fly in the room as seen through the older sister's eyes. When the
younger sister comes in, through her eyes, the room is crawling with
insects. The question, of course, is "Who is illusioning?" By
societal agreement the younger sister is. In reality, they both may be
illusioning.
Case 3: A woman who had been sexually molested was illusioning
snakes. She saw snakes pouring out of her mouth, her ears, and her
vagina. Her inner child was illusioning in present time, the penis
intrusions of past time. In other words, she shifted the penis
intrusion to snakes to avoid the even greater pain of incest. Here is
a continuum of illusioning in the way the child disperses the energy
of child abuse. People illusion having a relationship with this person
or doing that activity, or illusion themselves swimming the English
Channel. The key is being able to recognize them as illusions. The
inner child sometimes has to do something to maintain his integrity
of self. One client could not see me (blocking-out) to the point
where he could just see my lips and hear my voice. In this manner,
I at least maintained contact with him. The illusioning phenomenon
occurs in degrees and is a continuum.
Complementary Trances
illusioning and blocking-out may occur simultaneously. Some-
one might be hearing something that is not there, and blocking-out
what is there. This phenomenon happens in relationships. For
example, imagine a man and woman are getting together for the first
time and the man says, "You look nice." The woman hears, "He
wants to sleep with me." The woman says, "I'd like to have lunch
with you" and the man hears, "She really wants to have a relation-
ship with me." That is the illusioning-blocking-out process.
In the Woody Allen film, Annie Hall, two characters have a
conversation on the balcony. The conversation is about philosophy.
Subtitles are added to the film, telling you what is being said behind
Illusioning + 89
the words. In illusioning, however, the subtitles are seen, even when
they are not present. The child within mind reads them and acts as
if they were there and real in present time.
Mind Reading
"When you mind read you make snap judgements about
others... There's no evidence but it just seems right. In most
instances, mind readers make assumptions about how other
people are feeling and what motivates them... As a mind
reader, you also make assumptions about how people are
reacting to things around them, particularly how they are
reacting to you.... Mind reading depends on a process of
projection. You imagine that people feel the same way you
do and react to things the same way you do. Therefore you
don't watch or listen closely enough to notice that they are
actually different." (Mckay, 1981:20)
For example, a sexually-abusive father might talk about the
Boy Scouts with his son, but the child knows his father wants sex.
The child is seeing the actual subtitles. The child within the adult,
years later, sees subtitles with most men and feels scared. This is
illusioning, taking the past subtitles and projecting them into the
present.
With the illusioning of mind reading, the child within illusions
what is occurring. Breaking the child-to-child loop so the observer
can wake-up the inner child' s trance and see present time, forces the
causes of the mind reading to surface, which is scary.
Principle VI: The child-to-child trance must be main-
tained; the child-to-child trance must make the world
conform to its image. To see the world otherwise would
break the trance and bring about CHAOS.
Recently, I was giving a workshop in Quantum Psychology on
the East Coast. A therapist came who was trained in N.L.P. (Neuro
Linguistic Programming) and said this is just like N.L. P. I said well,
there is no refraining, no parts negotiation, no swish technique, no
modeling, no phobia model, no resource retrieval, no rapport
building, no anchoring, and no use of representational systems. She
90 4* The Dark Side of the Inner Child
said, "It' s just like N.L.P." I got confused until I realized she was in
a child-to-child trance, trying to make me be her image rather than
experiencing the chaos that might be evoked by new information.
Somehow, the child within feels her world being threatened as the
walls of the inner child are pierced with new information. Why?
Because allowing new information in or present time feedback,
breaks the trance of the inner child and awakens the observer. This
causes the trauma to surface that caused the trance to be constructed
in the first place. This could explain the almost violent reactions
people have to new data.
In illusioning, the person is seeing what is not occurring. If they
are blocking-out, they are not really seeing what is going on. A
woman came to see me for counseling complaining that she always
heard her mother's voice inside herself (inner child's auditory
illusioning). I suggested she spend 20 minutes each evening imag-
ining a record of her mother's voice playing at 45 rpms. I called it
"Mom' s Greatest Hits." She then was asked to regulate the speed
from 45 rpms to 78 rpms to 33 rpms. She was further instructed to
alternate the sound in each stereo speaker (ear). She could regulate
the balance, also the treble, and bass. By doing this task for one
week, she was able to awaken the observer and gain control over the
voices which had popped up automatically.
The Next Step
Handling illusioning
1. Recognize.
Acknowledge the illusioning as the inner child.
2. Identify which style of illusioning is occurring.
   1. Selective trancing
   2. Awfulizing
   3. Wonderfulizing
   4. Mind-reading
3. Call out.
Each time the illusioning occurs, internally call out its
Illusioning • 91
name. For example, if you find the inner child is making
everything awful (awfulizing), internally call out that pro-
cess by name, pointing internally to it. Say to yourself,
that's awfulizing.
   4. Vary.
Create the illusions in a variety of ways, more, better, or
different. By continually creating the illusioning in differ-
ent ways, you gain control and cease creating the illusion.
   5. Moving.
Another way of dismantling illusioning is to move the
images around, to see them smaller, bigger and then in
different parts of the room. This enables the person to take
charge of the created image.
   6. Voice Control.
For auditory illusionings, like hearing parental voices, the
following techniques are helpful. Imagine a stereo with
three speeds, 78, 33-1/3, and 45. Imagine the voice as if it
were on the record. Play the voices fast, then medium, then
slow. Make the sound louder, softer, and then shift the
speakers. This is a way of taking charge of the audio
illusioning.
   7. Trance-ference.
If you notice you are projecting on men or women, imagine
them as Mom or Dad. Intentionally create a mom and dad
mask on all men and all women for a week. This will
awaken the observer of the inner child, so the observer can
take charge of the process.
Conclusion
Illusioning is a trance that can be appreciated for what it is the
inner child' s defense. With this understanding, the adult can explore
his inner child's defenses as "creative choices," and thus the
observer can take charge of the automatic illusioning. This is
92 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
respecting and appreciating the inner child' s defenses as early
solutions to prior problems, which have been dominating the
subjective experience of present time. Furthermore, it cannot be
overstated that waking up can be a painful process. Why? Because
the observer created the trances to dull the pain of trauma. To
awaken the observer, the pain of the trauma can no longer be denied
or dulled. Hence, in the waking-up of the observer the trances must
be acknowledged along with the denied trauma. It is only in that way
that the awake observer can become an established state; or better
said, an established non-state of trance-endence.
• 10  
Con-fusion:
GettingLost
In Spanish, the word "con" means "with," so we might say that
with fusion comes confusion.
Confusion is the trance the observer creates and that occurs
when the interaction in the family cannot be understood or inte-
grated by the child. This happens when the observer and child are
faced with an event, situation, or emotion that cannot be fully
experienced. The child either resists experiencing the episode or he
has no model to explain its occurrence. It is in this process that the
experience of con-fusion emerges. For example, a child with
parents who are mean to each other might experience con-fusion.
This situation does not make sense to the child, and so the observer
creates a confusion trance. A problem occurs when years later, the
child within the adult automatically gets confused when there is an
argument.
94 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Confusion and Chaos
Recently, the emergence of the theory of chaos in physics has
turned the world of science around. My forthcoming book inter-
faces principles of chaos with psychology and Eastern philosophy,
and is called The Tao of Chaos: Essence and the Enneagram,
Quantum Consciousness, Volume II. Trances are a way of organiz-
ing chaos. For example, a child being molested goes through a
period of chaos, and to organize and handle that chaos, the observer
develops strategies, identities, and trances to explain or cope with
chaos.
Webster's definitions of chaos are, (1) utter confusion or
disorder; wholly without organization or order. (2) The
infinity of space or formless matter supposed to have
preceded the existence of the ordered universe. (Webster' s
Dictionary, pg. 201)
Chaos for the purposes of this book includes states of confu-
sion, being overwhelmed, out of control, feeling crazy, and emptiness
or void.
In the resistance to the feeling of chaos comes the organization
of trances, which hopes to make sense out of that which doesn't
make sense or does not compute. Interestingly enough, Buddhists
for centuries have said the greatest resistance people have is to
emptiness (chaos).
Once an experience like being molested is resisted, the child
will protect herself from experiencing the pain of knowing what
happened, by surrounding it with confusion, and often several other
trances. Often people will develop a spiritual philosophy to justify
how they have organized the chaos, (See Chapter 14, Spiritualiza-
tion).
Principle VII: It is a "shift" of consciousness from just
observing the situation through confusion or chaos to
creating identities to meet the unknown situation.
For example, a child who is asked to do something by Mom gets
confused and, through trial and error, behaves the way Mom wants.
Once re-enforced by Mom, situations that appear similar to the child
Con-fusion • 95
create con-fusion and the inner child creates the same reaction
(trance or identity) that worked before with Mom.
Simply put a child who eats with his hands receives a not okay
look from Mom. If the observer cannot integrate the mother's
message, confusion is created. In that shift of awareness from
observing Mom and her message to creating a reaction that gets
Mom's approval, coping devices emerge which can be called
identities. In this situation one particular identity that might mani-
fest is "I want to do it my way." With further intensification of the
message by the mother, the observer again produces confusion and
might create another identity called "Yes Mom, whatever you
want." To make it even more interesting, the observer places the
entire situation on automatic, goes to sleep and, thus, the inner child
window to reality is born. He can now avoid thinking about new
reactions in present time and can just keep creating the same old
identity that worked with Mom. These two identities are now in
opposition to one another. One identity says, "I want to do it my
way," and the second identity, "I have to do it Mom' s way to
survive." Here again are two sides of the inner child. And as they
generalize into other areas of life, they both create conflicts inside
the adult as well as with others.
For example, the inner child might project one identity on her
boss and feel she has to kiss ass in order to survive, believing, "I can
never do it my way." As a boss, the inner child might project the "I
want to do it my way" on an employee and demand, "It's my way
or your fired"
This example is a simplification of the identity process al-
though I am sure we all can imagine ourselves in school, marriage,
or at work with these automatic conflicts occurring, which are
inherent in identity formation. Look at the double bind, or lose-lose
set-up. The child sees only two possibilities: unloved or fired. If the
pretend identity conforms to survive, the adult feels lost, alienated
and misunderstood.
Unfortunately, in our society, which is the context in which we
live, conforming and giving oneself up is the rule. The advent of the
industrial revolution is when the whole popularization of psychol-
ogy emerged. Society asks people to "play the game" and psychology,
a child of the industrial revolution, comes up with ways to help the
child fit in. It is the fitting-in process that is confusing. It asks people
96 4 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
to give up themselves to survive. Unfortunately, society with its
child-like psychology supports that process by rewarding those
who know how to "play the game" (money, status, etc.), and
punishing those who feel the pain of "selling themselves out."
Noted industrial psychologist, Frederick Herzberg would say that
problems arise with adults because we ask them to act like respon-
sible adults but treat them as children. Herzberg would say, if you
want someone to act as an adult, you must give them an adult job and
treat them as adults. Herzberg contended that the assembly line of
mechanized society asks adults to act and work as children. This,
according the Herzberg, isn't possible, and so assembly line work-
ers act as children with high turnover rates and low productivity.
Three Types of Confusion
   1. Task Confusion
Confusion can take three forms. In the first type, parents make
demands that are not possible to achieve or are viewed as over-
whelming by the child. These overwhelming parental expectations,
which the child is unable to fulfill, create feelings of confusion and
chaos. The confusion becomes the mechanism or way the child
handles the event. For example, the parent expects the child to make
a peanut butter and jelly sandwich by himself at age three. The
observer creates confusion and the child feels overwhelmed and
confused. The confusion gets generalized to everything they are
asked to do. Even years later they become overwhelmed and
confused when asked to perform certain tasks. The confused inner
child remains frozen, generalizing confusion onto many situations,
events, or arenas. The child within the adult feels constant pressure
to perform or do the task perfectly. Overtones of being judged or
feelings of incompetency or inadequacy follow this trance. Confu-
sion is placed on automatic by the observer, the observer goes to
sleep and the inner child within the individual takes over and then
fuses or associates confusion with tasks.
   2. Over-generalization
In this thinking distortion you make a broad generalized
conclusion based on a single incident or piece of evi-
Con-fusion • 97
dence.... A rejection on the dance floor means, "Nobody
will ever want to dance with me.... You are over-generaliz-
ing when you absolutely conclude that, "Nobody loves me,
I'll never be able to trust anybody. Words that indicate you
may be over-generalizing are: all, every, none, never,
always, everybody, and nobody. (McKay, 1981:20)
In the above peanut butter and jelly example, "I always get
overwhelmed when making food," the over-generalization made by
the observer is stuck to the inner child and is frozen in time (age-
regressed) and then over-generalized to limit life. Rather than
learning how to cook, the child within a man might hire a cook or
insist his spouse do the cooking. This limits the adult in present time.
3. Relationship Confusion
Over-generalization is often present in relationships. The child
learns that confusion is a powerful tool to push people away, to get
space for himself or get taken care of. Let us imagine that the little
boy, when asked to do anything, looks as if he doesn't quite
understand. Dad then shows him how it is done. Next, Mom asks the
little boy to change the light bulb in the lamp. The son acts
bewildered and responds with a look of confusion. Mom then takes
over and does the task. The well-known comedian Bill Cosby would
say, that Dads know how to act stupid, knowing that the Mom will
rescue them. Actually, it is the little boy inside of the man which has
learned to act stupid to get Mom to do it for him.
After a while a child learns that looking, acting, or being
confused causes someone to take care of him. This is a classic
example because, once placed on automatic, the confused act or
identity appears real and is supported by the social or family
network that reinforces its existence. This form of confusion is more
situation oriented. The therapy must center on the trance of confu-
sion, which is being used by the inner child to hypnotize the adult
in present time.
An example of utilizing this strategy involves a case where a
young girl was sexually molested. In adulthood she now experi-
ences a fear response when relating to men. First, there were several
trance phenomena the child created. Inner voices, dialogues, block-
ing-out, etc. are created during a period of confusion or chaos.
98 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Second, the trigger is "men." The inner child's response becomes
the problem. Thus, automatic creation of all men as the abuser must
be changed as part of the therapy, in order to shift the subjective
experience of the client (see Appendix, The Trigger).
4. Control Confusion
In the fourth confusion technique, the observer, through a series
of interactions, creates confusion in his/her environment. This is a
protective, defensive stance, which can afford the child a subtle
sense of safety and control over interactions that usually afford little
control. In this style the individual learns how to outsmart and out-
maneuver the environment by creating confusion. The child learns
that by using certain words, talking over the adult's head, using or
being a certain way, the adults remain bewildered, even stand-
offish. This helps the child to feel powerful when they actually feel
powerless. The child actually feels powerless, overwhelmed and
confused and, in that confusion, the child decides to confuse others
in order to feel powerful.
There is an old axiom in Gestalt therapy that says, "Do unto
others that which was done unto you." Let' s look at the last example
in the possible light of one of the most powerful hypnotherapists in
history, Milton H. Erickson, M.D. Erickson had polio and suffered
strokes. He developed ways to help control pain and developed
inner resources to survive. He then used these methods (do unto
others) to help multitudes of people. One of Erickson' s major
contributions to the field of hypnosis, according to Jeffery Zeig,
Ph.D., was in the area of confusion. Erickson was not only a master
of pain control, but a master of inducing confusion with clients. It
is the opinion of this author that Erickson, as would anyone who
suffered from polio and strokes, went through deep powerlessness,
confusion, and chaos, which were time frozen. He then utilized that
state and did unto others that which was done unto him; created
confusion in others. He used this, however, to help people by-pass
conscious interference and helped them feel powerful when they
complained of feeling powerless in their lives. Erickson could also
feel powerful inducing confusion in others, which was done unto
him. This would enable Erickson to counter his own feelings of
powerlessness by keeping others "one down," and himself "one
up." This was the creative genius of Erickson, utilizing his own
Con-fusion + 99
process of confusion to help empower others and himself.
When creation of confusion to handle powerlessness is placed
on automatic, however, the individual begins to experience feelings
of isolation, alienation, being misunderstood and loneliness, be-
cause to maintain the feeling of power and control, a person must
continue to create confusion in others and in his own world.
Often the overly-intellectual person will use the above strategy.
One patient would always confuse his parents and impact his
environment and relationships to gain a sense of control. People
who feel they must always be one-up, subtly placing others one-
down, suffer from this trance. It is the resistance to feeling powerless
or one-down that the child within the adult finds abhorrent. There-
fore, to not feel one-down, the strategy of creating confusion is
employed. A confusion approach can work, but loneliness is a high
price paid for control, particularly when the devices are so imbed-
ded in the child within the adult, who no longer experiences choice.
This protective trance is automatic and out of the person's control.
The adult suffering from this inner child' s trance does not know
why he turns people off. This is the power of the trance of the inner
child.
The Next to
Handling Confusion
I. Allowing the confusion. The first approach involves allowing
yourself to be fully confused, and continue to feel and create the
con-fusion. What is paramount in this process is (1) continue
breathing and notice where or what part of the body feels tight, and
(2) tighten the body and coordinate it with the holding of breath. In
this way, experience a whole body awareness of the confusion and
how it relates to the rest of the body. It is through intentionally
experiencing and creating confusion that the observer can wake-up
to present time and not use the inner child window any longer.
2. Differentiate. As with all trances, confusion is experienced in
a block, as one, undifferentiated mass. Notice in detail the specific
areas of the confusion, and assign different adjectives, such as clear,
dry, open, dark, cloudy, smothering. This shifts the experience,
which brings forth a different subjective feeling.
100 * The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Handling Interpersonal Confusion
   1. The Extension of Vision or Perceptional Field.
This technique includes utilizing the entire experience of
confusion, by watching or witnessing the confusion just "as
it is," with no judgment or desire to remove it. By allowing
and experiencing confusion, a shift in consciousness oc-
curs.
   2. Witnessing and Measuring.
In a repetitive fashion, ask yourself the following ques-
tions, writing down your answers.
   1. Where is the confusion?
   2. What is the shape of the con-fusion?
   3. Is it vague or clear?
   4. Does it have a color?
   5. Does it change how I feel about myself?
   6. Does it change how I feel about the world?
By repeating these questions again and again, the
confusion is witnessed.
   7. Notice that you are the observer and creator of the con-
fusion.
Conclusion
In this culture individuals attempt to "break through," "get
clear" of their con-fusion. Paradoxically, trying to get clear resists
the confusion. An I-dentity whose goal is to get clear is created. The
most interesting facet of this resides in the "getting clear" process.
The child resists experiencing the trance of confusion. Simply put,
trying to "get clear," "understand," "find out," or "know," is a way
the child within the adult resists confusion. Thus trying to get rid of
the confusion keeps it present. This resistance to experiencing the
experience of confusion, along with the label "confusion is bad,"
keeps the trance frozen. Individuals can learn to take responsibility
Con-fusion + 10)
for the creation of confusion and become more willing to experience
it without the resistance of trying to "get clear." Being with the
confusion, creating it intentionally, or choosing it in present time,
allows its frozen stuckness to shift, thus freeing the adult from the
inner child's clutches and awakening the observer and creator of
confusion.


• 1 1  
Trance Dreaming
Dream... Dream ... Dream... Dream...
Dream ...Dream ... Dream... Dream...
When I want you
In the night
When I need you
To hold me tight
Whenever I want you
All I have to do is dream
Everly Brothers
Trance dreaming occurs as the observer disconnects the child
from the family or world. The child loses itself as it begins to dream.
Actually, this is the purpose of the dream: to create a better world
inside, to handle the pain of outside. Unfortunately, the child who is
dreaming remains time frozen; the observer creates a dream within
the child that likewise is disconnected from the world. In other
words, in order to dream the child disconnects from the world and
disconnects from the body. This trance, which is created by the
observer, disconnects the child and is the way the child now survives.
104 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
The problem is that the dream is frozen within the child and is
therefore distorted, because it resonates from the child' s world, not
the adult present world. The inner child dreams of being a knight in
shining armor rescuing damsels in distress. Once this is placed on
automatic, the dream continues in present time as if it were real. Co-
dependent men or women, who dream of saving their partner from
their addiction, are in the trance of dreaming. In order to dream, they
not only disconnect from their partner's problem (drinking), they
also disconnect from their own bodies. When this occurs, the child
within the adult chooses the dream in the 1992 world. As the
observer sleeps, the child within the adult cannot understand why
the dream is not manifesting. Furthermore, the child within the adult
holds so tightly to the dream that she may try to get the drinker to
match the dream. This trance of the inner child can be so intense that
the dream continually gets chosen over present time reality.
I worked with a woman who was so love addicted to an abusive
man that the child within' s dream would not let go. After years of
therapy, she continually chose the dream rather than the reality; she
dreamed he would change. (He never has). I mention this example
because she never gave up the dream, or the abusive man, so intense
was her inner child's trance.
This dream now comes from the child within the adult, not the
present time observer. The task is to wake-up the present time
observer from the past time child identity that is dreaming. This is
done with the following exercises:
   1. Ask yourself where in your body you feel the child who
is dreaming.
   2. Intentionally create a dream and place it inside the
body part where the dreaming child resides.
   3. Notice the difference between you and the inner child' s
dream.
   4. Create the dreaming child several times.
The dream is deeply layered in the child and often becomes a
major, motivational impetuous for the adult, as a lifestyle or
rationale for ongoing behavior. For example, in the classic Woody
Allen film Play it Again, Sam, Woody dreams he is like Humphrey
Bogart. The exaggeration of the dream makes it obvious that the
child within is dreaming. Problems arise for the character because
Trance Dreaming 46 105
he can never be himself; he is always trying to be Humphrey Bogart
(his dream). The unaware adult imagines the dream is real, not
realizing the child within has created this idealized dream.
Difficulty for the adult stems from the fact that she is unaware
that her dream is a trance, coming from the little child, because the
dream seems logical. The dream trance can be supported, argued,
and discussed with rational prowess and emotional logic. In the case
of Woody Allen, he argues that being like Bogart is how you're
supposed to be in order to get the relationship you want. How many
of us have a dream that tells us if we look, act or are a certain way,
we will have the relationship of our dreams? This is the problem in
many of my couple's sessions. One or both members of the
relationship have an inner child's dream. Sometimes the spouse
tries to get the partner to change to fit the dream. Sometimes the
dream is so idealized that the adult with a dreaming inner child
suffers greatly. The work begins with my asking the adult to look at
the inner child's dream rather than trying to change the spouse. The
tragedy of this common situation is that the spouse never experi-
ences the present-time relationship. The idealized dream is overlaid
on top of what is.
It must be recognized, while working with oneself, that there
are feelings of grief, disillusionment, discontent, and general emo-
tional confusion, when past dreams are confronted. The present
world does not match the child within' s dream, which has solidified
in the adult.
Trance dreams are important for many reasons. Certain people
do not daydream. Being unable to dream, daydream, or fantasize
becomes a liability, because the ability to access one's intuition is
cut off. The opposite is also true; a trance dream on automatic
creates disconnections from now, since it is the child within who
stops and starts the trance, rather than the observer in present time.
In the former, the inner child dreams; in the latter, the inner child is
hypervigilant.
An example is the man I was seeing for counseling who did not
daydream. Since he had no daydreaming ability, he was experienc-
ing a focused, over-identified state with high anxiety and
hypervigilance. He didn't have the ability to let go and trance
dream. In this case, his inner child had to be hypervigilant because
his father had been institutionalized as a child for emotional
106 + The Dark S ide of the Inner Child  
problems. Like the overidentified trance, trance dreaming equaled
disaster.
With the observer asleep, a trance dream is one way the child
within the adult resists experiencing the present. Health lies in the
ability to create trance dreams and cease creating them, at choice.
For most people their trance dreams are on automatic and are
versions of unfinished childhood themes. Choice is the ability to
pick up or put down trance dreams, at will. An example is the
woman who said, "There are beings/guides who come to me, and
I'm going to be like Christ." I outgrew my own dream of playing
basketball. Her dream solidified. Years go by and she forgets that
she is a little child in the dreams. Now she is 30 and not ready to live
the dream. A critical shift in viewpoint is required; the old dream
puts her in conflict with the reality of today. At this point the
therapist starts bringing the dream into a level of reality organiza-
tion, i.e., what's real and what's not real, in present time.
If you do not dream or have interrupted your dreaming, it' s
critical to work with yourself to develop the skill of trance dream-
ing; this interrupts the inner child's hypervigilant identity. Some
creative ideas will come out of this new skill. Self-interruptions,
invented in childhood, undermine peoples' ability to dream. Parents
give many suggestions when they say, "Be realistic," which means,
"See the world the way I see it." The child stops himself from ever
really going into his own dream state.
The Identity Dream
Look at me
Who am I supposed to be
Who am I supposed to be
Look at me
What am I supposed to do
What am I supposed to do
Who are we
Oh, my love
John Lennon
Trance Dreaming + 107
the dream people listen to him and see him. For example, a friend
of mine, that I lived with in India, was abused as a child. During the
trauma of abuse he dreamed of being at the United Nations, giving
a talk on the World's problems and being loved and listened to.
Problems arise when the identity distortion becomes context-
independent, or when the identity distortion becomes stuck and
begins to function autonomously, without regard for interpersonal
feedback from the family, school, or relationships. As an example,
a child with no musical ability who imagines himself being admired
as a rock and roll star operates without interpersonal feedback. It is
the interpersonal feedback that enables the self-to-self trance of the
child within to be questioned, so that the observer can let go of its
creation. Developmentally, without appropriate interpersonal in-
teractions, the trance becomes more solid. To move smoothly
through this developmental experience, requires an appropriate
interpersonal environment. The identity dream, acting child-to-
child without appropriate feedback interpersonally, might cause
depression, anxiety, etc.
"Externalization" occurs when an individual, during his devel-
opment, is denied the particular experience of a safe, loving,
supportive environment that would afford him a sense of whole-
ness, completion and well-being. To counter or neutralize this
deprivation, he creates a dream character who gives him the
complete experience required for a greater sense of self. Children
that develop imaginary playmates who provide them with appropri-
ate levels of love, understanding, and affection demonstrate this
phenomenon.
Externalization is a process that provides a person with discon-
nected experiences that are needed. To repeat the earlier example,
while I lived in India, an introverted friend had a recurring identity
dream of himself delivering a speech on the state of the World to the
United Nations. After chatting with him for a while, I mentioned
that nobody had listened to him as a child and he had been abused,
hence, his inner child created this United Nations dream. Here, the
family was transferred by the inner child onto the United Nations.
The problem arises as the dream, friend, lover, prince, situation,
etc., begins to be projected onto the external world. This
externalization process becomes a compulsive tendency to finish
interpersonally (with the world) what needs to be completed with
108 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child  
yourself. in other words, since you were never listened to, you
compulsively try to get yourself understood. This phenomenon
becomes a problem because the projections occur in the child-like
state. Consequently, the age-regressed adult can only interact as a
child attempting to complete itself, rather than as an adult meeting
its needs.
For example, the child within my friend went into a child-like
state, dreaming of people listening to him, rather than as an adult
actually asking people to listen to him. The dream of the inner-child
prevented him from asking for and getting his present-time needs
met.
The Next Step
Handling Trance Dreaming
Too much Daydreaming?
   1. Notice the dream.
   2. Notice where the inner child who is dreaming is in your
body.
   3. Create a dream, and put it inside the child in the body.
   4. Create the child and the dream.
   5. See the difference between you (observer/creator) and
the dreaming child.
Facilitating Trance Dreaming
This exercise is constructed to facilitate dreaming for people
who are unable to experience this phenomenon, or for people that
are hypervigilant.
Step 1 - Relax. Move into a comfortable place and begin to
imagine different, pleasurable scenes: woods,
mountains, oceans, favorite people, etc.
Trance Dreaming • 109
Step 3 - Experience. Step into the scene, and feel what it
feels like to be a part of the dream.
Step 4 - Before Bed. Prior to going to sleep, ask yourself to
allow dreams to happen and be remembered.
Sometimes people report asking for solutions to
problems and receiving the answer, utilizing this
technique. As an exercise, write down the first
conscious thought upon awakening. The accu-
racy or insight of the communication may be a
surprise.
All these exercises facilitate the increased skill and awareness
of hypnotic dreaming, to aid in self-understanding.
Summary
What cannot be over-emphasized is that dreams are not wrong.
They are disruptive when they get out of control and act automati-
cally because the child within the adult loses the present-time world
and the connection to the body. It is by observing and creating
knowingly, that allows the observer/creator to wake-up and get "in
charge" of the dreaming rather than be a prisoner of the inner child' s
trance.
Handling Identity Dreams
   1. Acknowledge. Watch the mind acknowledge different
stories and themes that arise.
   2. Notice. Notice, for example, (a) rags to riches: seeing
oneself arising from an impoverished position to be-
come recognized and acknowledged (Rocky-type
movies); (b) Cinderella complex: dreaming someone
will materialize and take you "away from all this"; (c)
seeing self as a football or rock star, or an influential
person. Notice the story line; what is usually seen in
these identity dreams is a one-dimensional replica of
the story. Notice that you are the observer of the inner
child's dream.
110 40 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
   3. Ask yourself what needs the inner child is trying to
fulfill through dreaming." Write down your answers.
   4. Ask yourself, "Am I willing to ask for my needs in my
present-time relationships?" Write down your unful-
filled needs and whether you are willing to begin to ask
for them directly. Try this for a week, and write down
what feelings arose and how others' responded to you.
For example, if you ask for affection this week, fear
might arise. Also, how did you see others respond to
your direct request?
Summary
Identity dreaming, a sub-set of dreaming, aids the individual
during times of stress. It is only a problem when the inner child acts
autonomously and treats the present as the past, outside of the
control and awareness of the sleeping observer.
•12  
Amnesia
Amnesia, often referred to as denial, is a trance that can operate
on its own without the adult' s conscious control in present time. The
child within, experiences this trance as a way of protecting himself
from uncomfortable situations.* Here are several styles of amnesia.
   1. Self-deceptive amnesia, manifests when the child within
the adult forgets to remember a situation. An example
of this might be an adult child of an alcoholic who
forgets his parent's drinking.
   2. Deletion, or leaving out appropriate information dur-
ing communicative interactions, allows a non-committal
statement that could be interpreted in a variety of ways.
Simple statements like, "You know how it feels when
things happen." What feels, who feels, what happens?
   3. Forgetting, Amnesia occurs when the individual for-
gets what he said as an attempt to control a situation he
perceives as uncontrollable. This denial pattern occurs
when a person agrees to something to reduce tension,
and then forgets they agreed to it.
* Although this is not the place to discuss it in depth, severe amnesia can be a signpost for dissociative disorders or even multiple personality disorder.  
112 * The Dark Side of the inner Child
These amnesic states are the observer's intense efforts to keep
the child in balance. They are exhibited by forgetting information
or events to control uncontrollable situations, usually relating to
former experiences like chaos, emptiness, or feeling out of control
or overwhelmed.
As an example, children from dysfunctional families often feel
overwhelmed, lost, abandoned or afraid. To handle that, the ob-
server creates caretakers, lost children, and enabler identities,
which are covered with amnesia so the person does not remember
how this identity was brought about. Identities are created by the
observer to handle chaos. If amnesia (What happened?) is used, it
surrounds the identity and the reason the coping device was formed
is not remembered, (i.e., the trauma).
Amnesia is forgetting, and it is a defense. Amnesia developed
because the observer did not want the child to remember. If
someone comes into therapy and says, "Hey, I just can't remem-
bell," she also exhibits symptoms such as stopping her breath and
holding her muscles, in order to maintain the forgetting. Amnesia
is a defense, a way that the observer helped the child to survive the
circumstances in which she grew up.
When a client verbalizes, "I have the worst memory in the
world, and I'd like to work on it," or, "I can't remember what
happened, but I sense I was sexually molested," then the strategy for
a therapist is very simple. Have them breathe and look at you. This
will access the "forgotten" experience. Patterns are held in the body
and breath. This is why I suggest that traumatized clients receive
some form of body therapy: Rolfing, Bio-Energetics, Feldenkrais,
Alexander or massage.
Body memories of trauma are buried in the body. Body work
helps the "forgotten" or denied memory stored in the body to
emerge. Furthermore, many schools of psychotherapy, i.e. Reichian,
Bioenergetic, suggest that a body pattern correlates with a psycho-
logical pattern.
Working with Yourself
Do your breathing and your muscles stay the same? Almost
every psychological component seems to have a physical compo-
nent. If you are directed to breathe, look and stay aware; the events
Amnesia + 113
that precipitated the amnesia often emerge. There's nothing wrong
with having amnesia, if you are able to pick and choose when you
want it. The following is an edited transcript that demonstrates work
with amnesia.
Stephen:I want you to remember a time ... do you
remember a time when you felt real amne-
sic?
Patient:Yes, I don't remember getting beat up by a
bully in school.
Stephen:As you see an image of yourself in that
situation, I'd like you to see that bully;
describe him, and feel the "you" in the image
inside your body. (I am asking the client to
return the trauma back inside his body.)
What happens to your body for you to ac-
complish that? (The symptom then emerges.)
Stephen:Tell me what happens if you imagine your-
self in a real situation where you were
frustrated, but you could not remember. Can
you see that kind of an image?
Patient:Yes.
Stephen:If you were to pull it back inside of your
body, what happens?
Patient:I feel stupid.
Stephen:You feel stupid, and what is happening in
your body and to your muscles?
Patient:I'm giving it all, holding back right there
(stomach area).
114 4' The Dark Side of the inner Child
Stephen:(To Class. She already gave you a clue to an
inner dialogue.) Did you hear what you said?
(feeling stupid)
Patient:I didn't hear what I said.
Stephen:Did you hear what she said? (To another
student)
Student:Yes.
Stephen:Did you?
Patient:No.
Stephen:Living proof of amnesia!
Patient:It's not true. (Laughter)
Stephen:There's an example of your amnesia. I learn
from everyone I work with. "TEACH ME
HOW THE INNER CHILD CREATES THE
SYMPTOM," is the message I give the
client. I learn how to work with people just
by staying in this kind of a process.
Hypermnesia
Hypermnesia is remembering everything. That also is a de-
fense, a way the organism helps itself to survive. In my family, my
parents were inconsistent. I listened to every word they uttered and
remembered what they said. Then a year or six months later, they
would say, "I told you to do this," and I would correct them. They
would say "God, I can't believe what a memory you have. You can
remember everything," which, of course, was the perfect sugges-
tion for hypermnesia. I could hold them to what they had said 20
years before, 10 years before, five years before. I remembered every
Amnesia • 115
single word. The negative side of hypermnesia is a watchful,
mistrusting attitude, like hypervigilance.
The Next Step
Handling Amnesia
   1. Locate where in the body the inner child identity is.
   2. Ask the inner child questions like, "What can you (the
inner child) remember about X" (a particular situa-
tion).
For example, if you have an idea that your father drank, ask the
inner child, "What can you (inner child) not remember about
father's drinking?" or "What do you (the inner child) not know
about your childhood?" Write down your answers and keep asking
the question, until nothing pops-up.
Examples for remembering the past: "What do you (the
inner child) not know about X?" Write down your answers
until nothing more pops up.
Fill in X with the words below, and keep asking the questions,
writing them down, until nothing pops-up.
My mother
My father
My brother/sister
My childhood
My relationship
Examples for remembering current events:
My business
My car
My bills
My life
Other examples:
1. What are you (the inner child), unwilling to know about
the past?
116 446 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
   2. What are you (the inner child), willing to know about
the past?
   3. What did you (the inner child), decide to know about
the past?
   4. What did you (the inner child), decide to not know
about the past?
You hold a volume of information; one way to break beliefs
about what you can and can't remember is to ask ... and notice what
occurs.
Conclusion
Understanding that both amnesia and hypermnesia are reac-
tions to environmental, unwanted, family situations, makes it easy
to undo the not knowing (denial) and expand the knowing. This
gives you more choice or range in the experiences of the world and
allows the resources of your past to open to you.
Once the past is open, an individual can use it as a resource
library of forgotten material, which can be taken into the present and
future. Denying incidents of the past takes a lot of energy, energy
that could be used in present time relationships. Removing the not
knowing provides more energy in present-time with which to know
and be creative.
•13  
Sensory Distortion:
I Can't Feel
As soon as you're born they make you feel small
by giving you no time instead of it all
Till the pain is so big you feel nothing at all.
"Working Class Hero" John Lennon
Sensory distortion is a trance state experienced as numbness,
pain, dullness, or as the opposite, hypersensitivity. Three types of
sensory distortion include:
   1. Emotional sensory distortion: is a defense to protect
the observer creates numbness within the child. For
example, the child develops numbness during an inci-
dent of child abuse. Years later the child within the
adult develops a numbness or lack of sexual sensations.
   2. Hypersensitivity occurs when someone is overly sensi-
tive to the world. For example, an individual walks into
118 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
a room and the child within the adult imagines every-
one is talking about him or someone shows up 15
minutes late and the child within personalizes it, think-
ing, "Why me?"
3. Sensory distortion and pain is a trance that shrinks the
focus of attention to only the pained area. For example,
if a person has a headache, the attention of the indi-
vidual is focused on the head. The goal would be to
expand the focus of attention to include the whole
body.
Below are cases that illustrate methods of working with oneself,
and are guides to the next step of dismantling the inner child' s
automatic sensory distortion, and awakening the observer.
Type 1- Emotional Sensory Distortion
A 250-pound man came to see me. He requested therapy for
obesity. As we began the therapy, he spaced out, disconnected and
then felt his body was like a stone (sensory distortion). He had no
sensations. I suggested he feel a sensation and then experience a
space, and another sensation and a short space, and a sensation and
a long space. (There are spaces that often go unnoticed between
sensations). Eventually, the undifferentiated mass (his body) began
to throb or pulsate. He began to take charge of the "rock-dead"
feeling of protection and lengthened or shortened the gaps or spaces
between sensations, by himself. Lengthening the gap would slow or
lessen the sensations, shortening the gap heightened sensations.
The result for the client was increased energy and a greater "feeling
of his body," instead of his old pattern of withdrawal into denial, to
avoid sensation.
Type II — Hypersensitive Distortion
The second type of sensory distortion, hypersensitivity, is
illustrated by a woman who felt hypersensitive in groups of people.
She experienced rapid sensations in her heart and chest. As in the
first type of sensory distortion, the speeding up or slowing down of
sensations altered her subjective experience. She imagined people
were thinking bad thoughts of her. Once again I asked her to create
a sensation and notice the space, and create another sensation and
Sensory Distortion + 119
notice the space. In this way, the observer took charge of creating
the sensations.
Another style of hypersensitivity comes from cognitive therapy
and is called Personalizing.
Personalizing is the tendency to relate everything around
you to yourself. A recently married man thinks that every
time his wife talks about tiredness she means she is tired of
him. A man whose wife complains about rising prices hears
the complaints as attacks on his ability as a breadwinner. A
major aspect of personalizing is the habit of comparing
yourself to others. He' s dumb, I'm smart. The underlying
assumption is that your worth is questionable. The basic
thinking error in personalization is that you interpret each
experience, each conversation, each look as a clue to your
worth and value. (McKay, 1981:21)
When I'm late, my partner personalizes, "He doesn't love me."
Somebody doesn't like my seminar, and I ask, "What did I do
wrong?" When you are not personalizing, you realize this partner is
always late, it doesn't pertain to me, or this person always says bad
things about everyone. It's not just me. It's not personal.
The personalizing style of hypersensitivity comes from a parent
who is personalizing. For example, I worked with a woman who
personalized everything her husband said. If her husband said, "I'm
mad at you," she would go into the inner child identity and feel like
there was something wrong with her. The key to this understanding
is that in order to personalize you have to age-regress and become
the wounded inner child and treat present time as if it were the past.
If you are an observer in present time, you will see the, "I'm mad
at you," is coming from your husbands' "stuff' and not personal to
you.
Type III — Sensory Distortion, Energy Dispersal
Anesthesia is used to control pain. Two cases illustrate this
phenomenon. A woman presented herself for therapy with chronic
neck pain. The emotional material that emerged was a child-like
feeling, "The world is going to collapse." I asked, "Where does the
experience of sensation feel sharper? Where does the experience of
sensations feel duller?" Using the word "sensation" helps to shift
120 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
the focus from pain to "sensation." I continued, "Where are the pain
sensations burning? Where are they cooler?" All trances fail to
utilize all of the experience. The goal is to offer suggestions of
recognition for other sensory experiences, so the subjective expe-
rience shifts or varies slightly.
Principle VIII: The greater variability offered any prob-
lem, the less it remains fixed.
A second example deals with localized sensations manifesting
in a particular area, such as headaches. A woman came to therapy
with a migraine headache. First I had her see the headache as
sensations. Then I suggested, "Just as sensations can move from
your right index finger to your elbow, or your right toe into your
ankle, if you focus your attention now, you might...let me know
when the sensations begin to move from your head into your neck,
not to mention (nice way to suggest) into your arms and hands."
Eventually by this sequencing, the sensations became equally
distributed all over her body, relieving the headache.
By suggesting movement of the sensations, you reconnect
foreground (headache) to the body (background), and expand the
focus of attention to include the whole body. The trance of sensory
distortion is shifted. Stated more simply, the "A"-tension is only
experienced in the head. The task is to expand awareness so that the
attention is on the whole body.
Principle IX: Without shrinking the focus of attention,
there can be no trance; and without a trance, the symptom
cannot be held together.
Another example is a client who claimed he had only emotional
pain in his life, and it focused in his stomach.
I suggested that he might experience a desirable sensation in his
hand or foot. He nodded. "And a painful sensation in another part
of your body?" Nod. "A pleasant sensation in another part of the
body?" Nod. "A pleasant sensation in another part?" Over time, by
offering opposite or desirable sensations, we expanded his focus of
attention, and he experienced himself in a varied way. To enhance
his experience after the pleasant and unpleasant sensations were
equal or balanced, I suggested that he notice the sensations moving.
They moved into one another, merging and creating an integrated
Sensory Distortion + 121
experience of both. This integration of pleasant and unpleasant
experiences yielded a third experience of sensation, which was not
available earlier.
The Next Step
Handling Sensory Distortion
   1. Speed up or slow down the sensations, or expand and
contract gaps between two sensations.
   2. Differentiate the pain sensations by suggesting differ-
ent sensations like sharp, burning, light, etc.
   3. Suggest dispersing the sensations (energy) through the
body equally.
   4. Suggest to yourself a pleasant sensation in a safe area,
and an unpleasant sensation in another area.
Questioning the Inner Child's
Sensory Distortion
   1. Locate where in your body the inner child lives, the
child that is having the trance of sensory distortion.
   2. Dialogue with the inner child, asking the following
questions, and writing down the answers that pop-up.
   1. What are you (the inner child) willing to feel?
   2. What are you (the inner child) unwilling to feel?
   3. What are you (the inner child) willing to experi-
ence?
   4. What are you (the inner child) unwilling to expe-
rience?
   5. What have you (the inner child) decided to feel?
   6. What have you (the inner child) decided not to
feel?
   7. What sensations are you (the inner child) willing to
have?
122 0 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
   8. What sensations are you (the inner child) unwill-
ing to have?
   9. From what incident(s) or trauma(s) is the numb-
ness protecting you (the inner child)?
In each case write down your answers.
Conclusion
Sensory distortion, the slowing down or speeding up of sensa-
tions, is a creative act of the observer. Once the sensory distortion
is seen for what it is, with no judgments, labels, or evaluation, the
observer can take over its creative function, which it had given to
the inner child. The inner child automatically had contracted or
expanded sensations. Now the observer can own its creative side
and exist in present time. Learning what occurred to the child that
caused the sensory distortion (numbness) helps free up the psyche-
energy holding the memory, the trauma, and the accompanying
frozen sensations.
•14  
Spiritualizing
Now that I showed you what I've been through,
Don't take nobody's word for what you can do,
There ain't no Jesus goin' come from the sky,
Now that I found out, I know I can cry.
I ... I found out.
I ... I found out.
Old Hare Krishna's got nothin on you,
Just keep you crazy ... with nothin to do,
Keep you occupied with pie in the sky,
There ain't no Guru can see thru your eyes,
I ... I found out
I ... I found this out ....
"I Found Out" John Lennon
124 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Preamble
Before I discuss spiritualizing and its effects, it is important for
me to emphasize several points.
First, what prevents a true communion with the underlying
unity is our automatic trances. Secondly, the intention of this
section is to free us all from the past and age-regressed world views,
which inhibit our experience of this underlying unity. Third, what
we are left with is uninterrupted awareness uninhibited by memory,
distortion, resistance to chaos, or in a word, trances. It is with this
pure, uninterrupted awareness, without prior automatic trances, that
the natural interconnection and unity becomes more available. This
natural unity, called "quantum consciousness" is what I believe to
be a natural spirituality. A spirituality where we are free to be
separate and free to feel the interconnection of everything as a
choice, rather than automatic separation or automatic fusion, which
can be mistaken for unity.
While I travel and train individuals in my workshops I am often
asked, "What makes for a good client or practitioner in this style of
work?" My reply is always the same; 1) a willingness to look at and
confront whatever stands in the way of this unity consciousness, 2)
a willingness to let go of belief structures no matter how "comfort-
able", and 3) awareness, which I have called the solvent to the glue
of trance states, the trance-ending ingredient.
This is the attitude, a warrior's attitude, of being called to be
aware, to confront and let go of concepts, many of which have never
been looked at as concepts, but assumed to be truths.
To illustrate this let me narrate a story of what happened to me
in India in about 1979. I was visiting my teacher, Nisargadatta
Maharaj. He asked me, "Do you know youiself?" I replied, "I feel
a lot of love and bliss, and I can even see energy." He snarled back,
"I'm not interested in knowing if you are satisfied or pacified with
your spiritual life, do you know yourself?" I said, "no." He said,
"Then shut your mouth." Two years later I appreciated what he was
so dramatically saying. You must not be pacified with your spiritual
game, rather you must confront and dismantle your spiritual beliefs
and the spiritual structures of your mind to find out who you are. To
do this, and with this in mind, let us explore the trance of spiritual-
izing.
Spiritualizing a 125
Spiritualizing
One of the most involved and intricate trances of the inner child
is "spiritualizing." The spiritualizing trance develops as an infant
and moves through several normal, developmental phases. This
chapter will explore the processes of these developmental phases
and show how they can lead the child to the trance I call spiritual-
izing. I distinguish three phases of development and call them first,
second, and third level processes.
The first level begins as the infant believes that she creates her
parents' actions or, what is commonly called in the psychological
world, "magical thinking." In the second level, the child idealizes
the parent. In the third phase, an infant makes the parents into gods
and goddesses. Spiritualizing, then, is the third of these levels.
To understand what I mean by spiritualizing it is essential to
look first at what are known traditionally in psychotherapy as
primary and secondary processes. Let's look at an infant just around
the time of birth and through the first several years of development.
First Level Processes
First level processes involve basic cognitions or understand-
ings that an infant internally develops and later generalizes to the
world. Cognitive trance structures produce understandings for the
infant in the development of the inner child identity. This trance
understanding carries over to how the child views himself, his
parents, God and the workings of the universe.
This developmental process from infant to child is noted here
so we can question basic assumptions we have about life and see
them as just assumptions. Questioning our world view, or shall I say
the world view of the infant/child identity which is the window we
habitually look through, enables us to dispel age-regressed limita-
tions and move closer to the pure awareness of the observer
uninhibited by personal trances.
For example, when a child believes she always should be taken
care of, frustration ensues when the child within an adult hypnotizes
the adult into believing she is entitled to be taken care of. The
assumption, "I'm supposed to be taken care of," diminishes per-
126 4:0 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
sonal responsibility and power. As the adult matures, they can
become conservative, politically, and the adult can believe, "the
rich and powerful will take care of the rest of us." The problem is
the rich and powerful take care of themselves, leaving our inner
children feeling victimized. Cognizing that the rich and powerful
will "trickle down" money to us is a trance of the inner child, and
a fusion with Mom and Dad. This keeps the present-time adult from
feeling empowered.
Three Basic First Level Processes
   1. 1 created it: This trance relates to the beliefs the infant
develops when he is born, opens his eyes, and sees
Mom, Dad, nurse, doctor, etc. What is cognized? "I
created Mom and Dad." The infant believes this, and
often this belief is carried into adulthood. The results,
as we will explore later, are paramount to the develop-
ment of a self-view, a world view and the adaptation of
a spiritual philosophy.
   2. Infantile grandiosity: The baby feels cold and Mom or
Dad places a blanket on her. Next, baby thinks hungry,
and Mom or Dad brings food. Next, baby sensates, "I
want to be picked up." Somebody comes and picks up
the baby. What is cognized? "I created them to come
and take care of me."
These two processes of the first level of development are
often referred to as "magical thinking" : I created them to
come and pick me up, my thoughts create or my thoughts
make others respond. This is grandiose because it appears
to the infant that his thoughts are so powerful they create
or bring about external reality.
Adult Problem State: Obsessive thinking. When Mom or
Dad do not come to fill the infant's wants or needs, the
infant cognizes something new. Sometimes a child be-
lieves that if it thinks harder, more or visualizes someone
coming, they will come. The illusion is that they control
Mom and Dad with their thoughts. Obsessive thinking is a
Spiritualizing • Z 27
control issue and touches on magical thinking. "If I think
hard enough about it, it will happen." Recently some new
age thinkers have countered the obvious discrepancy be-
tween thinking and outcome with the contention that there
must be some other thought or counter-intention which is
preventing your thought from manifesting. This leads to a
new age philosophy that promotes letting go of the thought
or belief that interferes with manifesting what you want.
The unquestioned presupposition, thoughts create reality.
This will be discussed later.
Adult Problem State: Trying to control others through
thought, imagining you can control others' behavior through
thought or by acting a certain way.
Adult Problem State: Self blame. "It must be my fault that
things didn't work out." It's my fault if someone doesn't
like me." Both these strategies give the person an illusion
of control over others' behavior, even if they are counter-
productive or self-destructive strategies.
3. In addition to "I created it" and grandiosity, another
first level process is reinforcement. In this stage the
basic mind structures of the infant are re-enforced by
the world so the developing infant believes its original
world view to be correct. This occurs when a dysfunc-
tional family reinforces a behavior, like smiling or
being passive. The family responds to the child when
it doesn't need anything. The parents seem happy. The
child decides or cognizes that smiling will get her
needs met, not anger nor actions.
Adult Problem State: "I create how others feel about me,"
or the variation, "I am responsible for what others think or
feel about me." This begins early and the grandiosity and
magical thinking are re-enforced by Mom/Dad making
statements like, "You make me angry." The child believes
the behavioral and verbal feedback and continues the
illusion that he creates how people feel or interact.
128 o The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Adult Problem State: Over-responsibility: "I am respon-
sible for others' experience, and I am responsible for what
people think or feel about me."
Adult Problem State: Loss of Boundary: "It must have
been something I did that caused them not to like me. This
infantile trance has a pre-verbal assumption that two people
are merged. For example, the infant sees herself and mom
as one. In a relationship years later when the other wants to
be separate, the infantile trance pops up leaving the adult
confused and possibly with a fear of separation.
Spiritualizing is a new way of looking at the defense system
that occurs years later as the infant defends himself from
being separate.
Adult Problem State: Loss of self, giving up oneself to get
love. Often children give up their power, ideas, etc. to get
love from their parents. The child believes, "I control them
(parents) by controlling my feelings. If I can control my
feelings, I can control their feelings. I' m in charge." Picture
a child who becomes angry, and in response, the parents get
angry to control the child. The child controls and represses
his anger. The parents smile and give him a hug. From the
point of view of the child, by controlling his behavior, he
can control others' behaviors and how others feel about
him. This is the resistance to being out of control or
powerless. Grandiosity resists the perceived chaos of pow-
erlessness that the child experienced. The child cannot
acknowledge its powerlessness so, to regain a state of
power, he cognizes he is responsible and in charge of how
others feel about him. "If I control my thoughts, feelings or
actions, I can control their reactions, thoughts, or feelings
about me.
Often with incest survivors, the child creates beliefs like, "I
made it happen." If I'm seductive, it will happen; if I'm not,
it won't. I'm in charge of turning him/her on." or "I' m
Spiritualizing + 129
special because I am so powerful." All of these cognitions
resist the powerlessness of the situation. The child, to avoid
the chaos and pain, goes into a trance of making herself feel
powerful, in charge, rather than acknowledging she was
powerless, and the abuser was in charge. The cognition
helps protect her from being overwhelmed by the emotions
of powerlessness, feeling helpless, and victimization.
Adult Problem State: Rigidity. Here the adult is being
hypnotized by the inner child to control his feelings,
thoughts, and expressions as a way to be loved. Often the
child within the adult will try to control everyone else' s
feelings, thoughts, or expressions. Their emotional rigidity
prevents them from feeling their vulnerability and need for
love. The rigidity allows them to believe they can live
without love, or can withdraw love to control people.
The developing infant re-enforces her cognitions, beliefs,
and strategies in an attempt to organize her world. More
simply put, when facing her dysfunctional situation, the
child employs survival strategies to defend herself from the
fear of annihilation.
Second Level Processes
The second level of development is "idealizing." The develop-
ing child creates his parents as ideals, in order to avoid facing the
terror of death, chaos, or annihilation. For example in a house where
one or both parents are dysfunctional, the child does not have the
strength to face the chaos which he views as possible death through
neglect or abuse. The observer has the child go into a trance to not
feel, not see, or not know what the situation is. The observer creates
the child idealizing the parents and creates them as perfect. This
helps the child resist the chaos of seeing them as dysfunctional and
provides him with a strategy to handle his own internal chaos. If he
saw his parents' dysfunction, it would be too horrifying; so ideali-
zation seems like the only sane path.
130 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child  
Adult Problem State: Years later in relationships, the inner
child within the adult idealizes her spouse. This prevents
the present time adult from seeing her spouse in present
time. Sometimes the inner child will idealize to the degree
of only seeing, or falling in love with, the potential or
imagined ideal of the spouse.
In other words the child within the adult uses the trance with the
spouse that worked with the parents. Illusioning, fantasizing or
blocking out might be used. Unfortunately for the present time
adult, they are unaware of these trances, while the observer remains
fast asleep. In another scenario, the inner child within the adult
makes his spouse into an ideal by "building her up," making the
spouse feel good about herself. In this case, the child within
believes, "If I build you up, you'll take care of me." To be taken care
of is a normal wish. Unfortunately, in a dysfunctional family, this
is a desperate wish because care and love are unavailable.
Adult Problem State: Idealizing other people, lessening
yourself in order to idealize others. In this case the child
within who is idealizing gives up her own power or, worse
yet, pretends she doesn't have any. This child-like position
gives others power and claims none for itself.
Women and Power
...we insult them everyday on T.V.
...and wonder why they have no guts or confidence
...when they are young we kill their will to be free
...by telling them not to be smart and then put them down
for being dumb.
"Women Are the Nigger's of the World'
John Lennon
inspired by Yoko Ono
Spiritualizing 46 131
fragile a man' s ego is, so she builds him up as an ideal. This makes
her and him feel more secure. This trance keeps her relationship but
at the price of hiding her own power and brilliance. In many cases
she pretends she's not as smart as he, to the point she forgets she is
pretending. Many times, mothers teach their daughters to not be
powerful. Since, in our society this is taught and re-enforced, the
inner child within a woman hides its power. In workshop after
workshop, women are continually presenting the problem of re-
pressed power. Interestingly, very often the mother teaches and is
the model for repressing ones personal power. An example in recent
years is the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). This amendment
guarantees equal rights to women. What is astonishing is that the
little girl inside the adult woman has been so trained to hide her
power and has pretended so long that she is less than a man, that she
has forgotten she is pretending. Thus, many conservative women
demonstrate their age regression by being against their own equal
rights !
Adult Problem States: The next major problem arises
when disappointments come from the spouse not matching
the idealizations. In this style, the child within the man tries
to make his spouse into an ideal. Frustration escalates since
nobody can equal someone else's internal ideal. This
idealization trance also prevents the man from dealing with
his reality and relationship now.
In these situations there are two trances which occur.
   1. The child idealizes Mom and Dad to survive.
   2. The child within the adult generalizes this strategy to
his spouse, illusioning them to be something they are
not, to continue the childhood trance.
In these two trances, the inner child ( I) defends himself from
who the person truly is, and (2) trance-fers this defensive style on
his spouse making them his ideal, thus protecting the old reality and
avoiding the new reality.
In most cases, the trance of idealization is a powerful defense
the child uses to help her survive. The idealization trance enables the
child to not feel, see, or even recognize the pain in her dysfunctional
family .
132 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child  
Spiritualization
The Third Level Processes
Spiritualizing is the third level trance. It is an outgrowth of
levels one and two. In order to spiritualize, an individual must go
through the first two levels. Spiritualization is very deep, rooted in
pre-verbal cognition and deeply involves survival. Spiritualizing is
difficult to spot within oneself because books, philosophies, and
"spiritual groups" help to validate the trance and continue to
hypnotize the infant within the adult. It should be noted that not
everyone goes through the trance of spiritualization. If an individual
developmentally does not complete and pass through process one
and the second process completely, they will stumble into the third
process of spiritualization. To explain further, most children will
idealize their parents. Eventually, people realize that their parents
are just people, with good and bad qualities. This would end the
second process of idealizing, and the person would probably not
spiritualize. If, however, the infant within the adult still has this
developmental gap and is, hence, developmentally delayed, and
they continue idealizing others they will enter the third process of
spiritualization of SUPER-IDEALIZING.
Below are the types, problem states, and trances of spiritualiza-
tion.
The Infant Trance
In the third level of spiritualization, the adult is hypnotized by
the infant's magical thinking. This becomes a major cognition for
people who get involved with magic, and who think they can create
or influence others. For example in workshops I am asked "Don't
you think thoughts create reality?" To meet this level of magical
thinking or grandiosity disguised in a spiritual philosophy, I ask the
group, "How many people have you thought about having sex
with?" I let them think about that. "Now, how many people have you
had sex with? Notice the discrepancy. If thought creates reality, it' s
a poor means of creation."
Spiritualizing + 133
imagines his parents as God. The infant believes his parents are all-
good, all-powerful, all-loving and all-knowing. This is re-enforced
by parents that suggest this is true. For example, a little girl has to
play Dad' s game in order to survive. In order not to feel the pain of
giving up oneself to survive, the observer creates the idea within the
infant that Dad is a god-like figure.
A possible outcome is, years later the infant within the adult is
attracted to and joins a "spiritual group." This group has a philoso-
phy and rules for getting God's Love (which is really Dad's and
Mom's love), or rules for getting to heaven, winning grace, getting
liberation, bliss, etc. It is the infant within the adult who is drawn
into this Tamil-iar game of the family. Simply put, the infant within
feels overwhelmingly connected and attracted to spiritual groups
and philosophies that mirror her family of origin. This attraction to
such groups, communities or philosophies is because they are
family replicas from the past. This is the spiritualization process.
The trance-fer of the parent to idealized parent to the God who
grants grace by giving rewards, or a fall from the parental/God path
or grace and receiving punishments, is a process the child frequently
goes through. From the infant' s point of view, it is by the power of
parents/Gods that the child came to earth. Why? Because to an
infant, his whole universe, life and death are dependent upon
parents/God. The infant/child remains frozen within the adult
seeking "the answer," or ways to get to heaven, peace or liberation.
Often this is trance-fered to a teacher or guide who gives the answer
to the question, "how do I get free?" Transpersonal trance-ference
onto guides or teachers who have the answers, similar to parents,
runs parallel. For example, many clients I have worked with look for
their purpose or the meaning of life, seeking teacher after teacher for
that "higher purpose." The problem is that the infant/child within is
running the show. The infant/child within the adult is the seeker.
This is a very age-regressed, and pre-verbal trance, which requires
the looking to another for power, love, or enlightenment, rather than
to oneself. The solidity of this state is strong, because it was formed
preverbally by an infant who had to look to another for the secret of
survival. Parents determine the most basic life and death issues of
the child: the maintenance of the physical body and ultimate well-
being. Unfortunately for many, that infantile state stays frozen long
after it has developmentally served its purpose.
134 o The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Adult Problem State: Super-Idealizing people. They are
God. If I do what they say, I won't get punished (fall off the
path), and I'll attain nirvana, heaven, etc. My nirvana was
house, job and kids. This was my father's path to nirvana.
Super-idealizing is the trance-fer of God-like qualities onto
people, making people into gurus, and asking them for help
as if they had the power to grant your wishes or fulfill your
dreams. The magical thinking of first level development is
trance-ferred onto a person, "as if" their thoughts had the
power to awaken you. The child transfers his grandiosity
onto a person, making him, as he did to his parents, into a
saint, guru, etc. This infantile state is reinforced by philoso-
phies like the guru system of Hinduism, or the Roman
Catholic system of the Pope, i.e., the intermediary between
people and God. This trance creates religious systems and
volumes of books of study, which reinforce the truth of the
system.
Spiritualization Commandment: do unto a person, that
which you did unto yourself with your parents, in order to
survive. In other words, make people into gods.
Trance-ferring onto a System
In this infant/child-like trance of spiritualization, an infant/
child transfers the past idealization onto a spiritual system. In
spiritual systems, the infant/child within the adult overlays her
system on the world. This makes the world a "play of God," (a play
of Mom/Dad), or a way to learn lessons (Mom' s/Dad' s lessons).
This child within the system gives its power away to "a higher
power." The tautology is that the' adult relates only to the child
within, transferring its world onto the confused world of Mom and
Dad and then making it spiritual. This offers the adult, currently
being hypnotized by the infant/child, no feedback loop with the
world.
In the same way, religious systems relate to themselves with no
feedback from the world. The religious system becomes a tautology
because it never looks outside of itself for answers; it only looks at
itself or within its system for the answers. When the system cannot
Spiritualizing • 135
find an answer, or shall say when Dad/Mom don't have the answer,
the child or system employ super-spiritualization, such as "God
works in mysterious ways." The parents who have been made into
gods do act in mysterious ways, particularly if they are alcoholic.
This parallels the rationalization of the child within the adult when
teachers or gurus "act crazy." Some systems even call this "crazy
wisdom." This keeps the religious or spiritual system, which is
really the family, alive. This philosophy is portrayed in the book the
Peter Principle. Peter's second principle, "At all costs the hierarchy
must be preserved," which is similar to the spiritual hierarchy and
family hierarchy which preserves itself at all costs. For example,
look at the lengths the Catholic Church has gone through to preserve
the hierarchy, even in the face of the sexual abuse of children!
Adult Problem State: Transparency. Problem states con-
tinue to occur as the child within trance-fers his spiritualizing
onto others. For example, the child imagines himself to be
transparent and that the idealized guru/parent can see his
every thought, or knows his real self. This is grandiosity in
reverse. Here the child idealizes and trance-fers grandiose
powers on another figure, making the person a superhuman
God/guru, thus making the figure grandiose.
Trance-fer of Values and Lessons
In other forms of transpersonal transference, the child trance-
fers parental values to God. Here the child develops the trance of
transferring to God his parents' good/bad system, which the child
has taken on to survive. Now, good actions (the ones Dad and Mom
like) are what God wants. Bad actions become what God doesn't
want. Parental punishment occurs when a child doesn't get some-
thing from her parents. The parent says, "You're not getting this to
learn a lesson." Years later, when the adult doesn't get something
in life she wants, the infant/child within the adult uses spiritual
reframes like, "God is trying to teach me a lesson."
Trance-fer into a Spiritual Path
In another trance style, the child trance-fern the parent's way of
being into a spiritual path. The child is given a path, a means or is
told how to get to a particular end point. For example a middle class
1 36The Dark Side of the Inner Child
scenario would be the good boy following Dad' s path, such as
college, graduate school, marriage, three kids, and a house in
suburbia. This is viewed through the eyes of the infant/child as "the
word of God." Years later, the path or "how to" is generalized into
something spiritual applying to life, enlightenment, liberation or
knowing God. Parent/Gods gave the child the message, "This is the
best, only, highest or fastest" way to a house in the suburbs"
(liberation or God). The child within the adult becomes rigid, and
fanatic. In Eric Hoffa' s book, "The True Believer," he states that the
same rigid structure that governs Nazis also governs religious
fanatics, although the goals are different.
Adult Problem State: Spiritualization and Rationalization.
If I need it my parents/God will give it to me. If I don't need
it, I won't get it. I would say to my parents, "I want a new
bike." My parents would say, "You don't need a new bike;
if you needed it, we would give it to you." this is interpreted
by the infant/child as God gives me what I need, with the
spiritualization that when something doesn't come that you
want, "I guess God didn't want me to have it, or "I guess I
didn't need it." Notice how the infant/child within the adult
spiritualizes that God decided I didn't need it. It's as if God
said, "Give Stephen money, he needs it," or "Don't give
him money; he needs to learn a lesson."
Transpersonal Co-dependence
In this third level process, the child pleases and serves the
parents in order to get taken care of. Psychologically, the child
inside a woman might believe "I'll take care of you (help you
through medical school), so that you'll take care of me." This is a
story of a child who gives up her self to take care of her parents in
order to be taken care of herself. A child brought up in an alcoholic
family might clean-up Dad' s bottle of booze, thinking that' s taking
care of him so that she will be taken care of.
Years later, if it trance-fers to God (transpersonal co-depen-
dence), the child within might become a disciple of a guru. The
philosophies match: I'll serve the guru, so he will take care of me.
Notice how often gurus and religious systems abuse their vulner-
able disciples sexuality and emotionally. It appears to the child
Spiritualizing + 137  
within the disciple that he is serving, but actually the guru is
manipulating, playing out the parent side of the identity, getting
people to take care of him in the name of spirituality. This is called
service. People in spiritual circles say things like, "I just want to
serve God." Translated, "I want to take care of Mom and Dad, so I
will get taken care of."
Notice how the trance of spiritualization organizes the chaos of
being brought up in a dysfunctional family, giving it to a higher and
more dissociated purpose. In the song, Do You Remember, John
Lennon says, "Do you remember when you were small. How people
seemed so tall?" This is the higher power phenomenon. The child
has to look up to parents because children are physically smaller and
less developed. Notice in most religions, you "look up" to God; this
is the child's re-creation of being small, looking up at parents now
called "God." This pre- supposes God has a location.* This ordering
of chaos by the child is a powerful way he can avoid his personal
pain and be grandiose about his own specialness.
The illusion of the child within is that she is serving some higher
person, so that the "higher person" will take care of her by giving
her knowledge, love, etc. The child is physically smaller and sees
adults as bigger, thus attributing higher knowledge, and in many
cases magical power, which are spiritualized parents.
Adult Problem State: Parallel spiritual systems. Spiritual
systems match psychological distortions, and the child
within will be attracted to spiritual systems that re-enforce
his first level, second level, and third level cognitions.
Adult Problem State: Projection of God on a loved one.
"That person is my only source of love, affection, etc." The
child imagines that parents are their only source of love
forever. A child that has not owned his own self love,
imagines that love is something given or taken away and
that he is not the source of his own love. Psychologically,
it is easy to see how the child within, who is a "love addict,"
could transfer onto a person the label only source of love.
Spiritually, however, parents and gurus become the only  
138 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
source of love, and the addiction gets fixated on something
outside of themselves. Notice in how many spiritual groups
you have to win the love or grace of the guru, to attain what
you want (enlightenment or a bicycle). This is similar to the
child's relationship to his parents. This trance of the inner
child (making someone the source of your love) steals the
responsibility of the adult who now believes someone else
is responsible for his love of self or how he feels about
himself. You are responsible for your perception and your
experience of love or lack of love.
Adult Problem State: The guru (parent) is responsible for
my spiritual growth. In this scenario the child feels, and
rightly so, that his growth both physically and psychologi-
cally, is dependent on his parents. The parents are responsible
for feeding and otherwise taking care of their children.
Children are vulnerable and need their parents' care. Hence,
they are dependent and powerless. When the person sepa-
rates from the parents, then their child "grows up," taking
responsibility for her own physical and psychological
growth and well-being. If, however, the child stays fixated,
the child within the adult trance-fern this desire to be taken
care of onto a guru/God, who becomes responsible for her
spiritual growth. In one community in India, the teaching
was, "The guru takes responsibility for your spiritual
unfolding." Notice how the inner child within the adult will
be attracted to philosophies that keep the trance alive and
well. We must understand that the path feels right to the
inner child, because it is Tamil-iar, similar to the family/
child trance.
Adult Problem State: Family and spiritual rejection. In
every spiritual group, I have encountered people who feel
finished or who aren't following the path (game) any
longer. They are harassed by the other family/spiritual
members. When a child leaves home in a dysfunctional
family, the parents and other family members send the
message, "There's something wrong with that boy/girl,"
or, "They are doing it the wrong way and will fail." It is an
Spiritualizing + 139
interesting parallel in spiritual groups. When a member
wants to leave—outgrows the group or feels finished the
group says, "He/shefell from the path, didn't really surren-
der, was resisting, or had some worldly stuff to work out."
The spiritualization of the dysfunctional family parallels
the spiritual group.
Adult Problem State: I am entitled. This concept comes
from the child who believes, and arguably so, that he is
entitled to be taken care of just because of who he is. This
is a normal phase of development that, when interrupted,
keeps the person stuck at this child-like level of "the world
owes me a living."
Spiritualizing pain
Another third level process is spiritualizing pain. In the spiritu-
alization trance, lessons to be learned seem to be the common
explanation for pain. While living in a monastery in India, often we
would get letters from the West saying something like, "I'm really
learning a lot," "I'm really growing a lot," or "I've learned a lot of
lessons about life," and we would laugh and say to each other, "Boy,
they must really be in pain." This form of spiritual re, rame has
become popular lately. Some might argue it has value in presenting
people with a different perspective on their situation. This may be
true, but the issue of pain, chaos, and the case of spiritual reframing
to organize it, comes into question.
Societal Spiritual Trances: Karma Theory
Karma is the Asian concept, "What you sow, so shall you reap."
Consider how this concept developed in India and how it helps to
organize the chaos and keeps order in the society . In India more than
99% of the wealth is owned by less than 1% of the population.
Karma theory helps to organize the pain and chaos of the 99%.
Furthermore, we must look at the larger context of religious and
spiritual systems to appreciate their attempt to organize the chaos.
For example, in India you develop the karma theory, (i.e., I have less
in this life because of my deeds in another life. If I'm good in this
life, I'll get good in future lives.) The karma theory prevents the
chaos of the poor 99% from overthrowing the rich 1%. How else but
140 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
using spiritualization, God, and karma theory could the masses be
controlled? In short, Karma theory is a spiritual philosophy used to
explain and maintain the economic status of Asia.
Karma Theory Spiritualizations:
"It is my Karma from my past life that I' m balancing; that' s why
I'm in pain" (I didn't get what I wanted). Here, in order for the child
to find a way to make sense out of a need unfulfilled, she trance-fers
a system to organize the discomfort and chaos. Children do not
understand why their needs are not being fulfilled. This is re-
enforced culturally in Asia and, in Western cultures, by
spiritualization. It is an opiate to dull the frustration and chaos that
might cause people to demand their rights and make a change.
Below is another form of spiritualizing pain I call super trance-
personal spiritualizations.
Review of Super Trance-personal
Spiritualization Rationalizations
   1. When you don't get what you want, "God/parents has other
things in mind for me, higher purposes."
   2. When things seem chaotic, "God works in mysterious ways."
   3. When you're good and don't get rewarded, "I will get my
reward for being good in another life," or "They will get their
punishment in another life, for being bad now."
In cognitive therapy this thinking distortion is called, Heaven's
Reward Fallacy.
"In this framework for viewing the world, you always do
the "right thing" in hope of reward. You sacrifice and slave,
and all the while imagine you are collecting "brownie
points" you can cash in some day. (McKay, 1981:25)
Notice how rooted this is in the infant or inner child state. In the
spiritualizing process, this is a constant occurrence. An example is
the Hindu systems of work and sacrifice for liberation. In the
Spiritualizing + 141
Christian religion, sacrifice is seen as noble. The problem is that all
to often people sacrifice themselves with hope of being rewarded,
and the reward doesn't come. The infant/child within reduces the
world to simple units of cause (I'm good) yields effect (I get money,
power, God, etc.).
4. Specialness. Specialness is a third level trance the child creates
in which they see themselves as special, as a reaction formation or
defense for not getting the caretaking they imagine they are entitled
to. Years later the child within the adult expects to be taken care of
for being good, or just special. The child cannot process the chaos
of neglect or abuse and so decides there must be a purpose, and as
a reaction creates specialness. Specialness is a process in which the
child creates a feeling of being special or different from others
rather than dealing with her neglect or abuse. The defense of
specialness is re-enforced by slogans like, "You're special."
Recall on the television comedy show Saturday Night Live, the
Church Lady, in a sarcastic voice always said two things; "Well,
isn't that special," and "feeling just a little bit superior." Notice how
people on spiritual paths feel special, or chosen, or superior to
everyone else.
Recently at a workshop, a participant asked, "How do I know
if I'm in the inner child identity?" I responded, "When you feel
special or different from others, you are in an identity." A few years
ago a well-known therapist asked me, "Suppose I like feeling
special?" I responded by saying, "With the identity of feeling
special comes the feelings of separation, disconnection, feeling like
nobody understands, loneliness, alienation, and possibly depres-
sion. This is not a small price to pay for the inner child' s desire to
defend against chaos by creating the feeling of being special."
Specialness and spiritualizing defend the child from the chaos
he/she would have to face being raised in a dysfunctional family.
Often times "incest survivors" feel special because they were
"chosen" by Dad/Mom to receive this special attention. This child-
like internal trance leaves an adult feeling:
Misunderstood "Don't people see I'm special?"
Alienated "I have a secret (the incest) that would blow
people away and hence nobody understands me, or
Unseen People don't see my depth or people don't see
me.
142 0 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Spiritualizing and Specializing
In this spiritualizing trance of specialness, the secret (incest) is
hidden from the child. The parents, who are now unconsciously
seen as gods, have the secret. Later in life the child within the adult
might be attracted to a guru who implies, "I have the secret. The
inner child within the adult feels compelled to find out, or know the
truth, in the belief that "The truth will set you free." In that way the
inner child is compulsively drawn to a guru who claims to know the
truth and will, since she is special, impart this secret to her. In my
circumstance, it was the truth of my incest that set me free from the
trance of spiritualizing. In my case I went to gurus to help me find
the secret that was hidden from me, and which the inner child had
hidden from me. I had transferred my parents on the guru, who I
imagined knew the "secret" The guru exhibits counter-trance-
ference. He represents the other side of the identity, pretending
either he knows the secret of freedom, or claims he is free and,
therefore, can unlock the hidden secret within you. Often the guru
suggests methods or ways to unlock these secrets of the universe.
Here the guru believes he has the way, and the child within the adult
trance-fers his parents onto the guru, in hope of finding the way out
of the maze of the secret, (i.e. the incest or dysfunction.) The secret
is spiritualized, being called "maya" (the illusion) in some Asian
systems. The Guru did not know the secret of my incest. I spiritu-
alized the secret, and him, believing the truth will set me free. In this
case the truth of my incest set me free of the spiritualizing trance.
Spiritualized Abuse
In all too many cases gurus and teachers emotionally or sexu-
ally abuse their students and disciples. Unfortunately, since to the
inner child within the adult this is familiar, it is accepted, denied or
spiritualized. In one case, an Indian guru would preach being
celibate, while sleeping with underage disciples. This was spiritu-
alized by other abused disciples as Tantra, (a secret sexual yoga of
liberation). In another case, the teacher suggested everybody sleep
with everybody and spiritualized it with, "You must keep having
sex until it is unimportant." A third teacher slept with his disciples
and denied it. It is interesting that the inner child of the teacher also
denied it publicly. This is because the degree to which the teacher/
guru/parent denies his drinking or abuse, equals the degree to which
Spiritualizing • 143  
the denial exists within the child inside of the disciple. One teacher,
died of cirrhosis of the liver and was a known alcoholic. To handle
this chaotic discrepancy the inner child within his students spiritu-
alized it saying, "He drank and had sex for us, to teach us he was
human."
Unfortunately the gurus and teachers are as involved in spiritu-
alizing as the disciples, hence the attraction (like attracts like). This
duplicates the process with the parents. The victim-abuser or
disciple-guru are two sides of the inner child identity trance.
The Inner Children within the Guru
Let me state this more clearly. The guru has two inner spiritu-
alized children. One has fused with the grandiosity, and one is the
unknowing child. The disciple has the same two inner children. The
disciple trance-fers the all-knowing grandiosity on the guru, mak-
ing him into an all-knowing saint. The guru counter-trance-fers
this, becoming the grandiose teacher. The guru trance-fers his
unknowing inner child on the disciple and then the disciple is seen
as unknowing and ignorant. The trance-ference must be broken and
dismantled for the observer to wake-up and true inner awareness to
develop. Unfortunately, all too often the guru or therapist gets
addicted to the adulation of the disciple, and becomes blinded by
his/her own trance-ference and counter-trance-ference issues. To
explain further, I recently spent time visiting a therapy guru. One of
his disciples, a woman about 50, came over to him, acting about age
5, clearly treating him as Daddy. Instead of breaking her trance-
ference, he liked the adulation and became the all-wise therapy
guru. Although this felt comfortable to both of them, it was familiar
(as in family), keeping the disciple and the therapy guru age-
regressed. For myself when my incest was uncovered and handled,
my spiritualizing ended.
What makes this style so interesting is the rage, implicit
demands, and the internal manipulations this inner child will go
through in order to be taken care of and to rationalize the abuse by
a teacher, and how the teacher can justify her mistreatment in terms
of spirituality.
144 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
their marriages or relationships broken-up or certainly interfered
with by Gurus or teachers. Why?
In this scenario the Guru is acting out his/her Oedipus complex.
Oedipus Complex: The unresolved desire of the child for
sexual gratification through the parent of the opposite sex.
This involves first, identification with and, later, hatred for
the parent of the same sex, who is considered by the child
as a rival. (American College Dictionary, pg. 840)
How does this apply? A married couple comes to a Guru and
age-regresses and spiritualizes the Guru/Dad, next, the Guru age-
regresses and makes the married couple into his mom and dad. Next,
the age-regressed Guru, does what he can to inter-fear with the
couple, so he can have the woman, (Mom) for himself.
In India, this used to be called left-handed shaktipat. Shaktipat
is a term used to describe initiation by a Guru. In left-handed
shaktipat, the Guru initiates the husband and wife, and then tries to,
or sleeps with the wife.
This age-regression by the guru and age-regression and spiritu-
alization by the disciples, has done great damage to both individuals
and couples. Unfortunately this occurs, and even more unfortu-
nately, the Guru's behavior is spiritualized rather than being
confronted and seen as the age-regressed trance of a perpetrator.
The Spiritual Lesson Reframe and Trance
As children we are all given reasons why things occur. Gener-
ally speaking parents give a reason for rewards or punishments. For
example, a child who does what is suggested by Mom and Dad gets
rewarded, now or in the future. Children who don't do what parents
tell them are punished now or in the future. If our previous
discussion is correct, and we make our parents into gods who are
trying to teach us lessons, let us look at the possible outcomes.
A child is rewarded for learning the lesson of cleaning his room.
Another child is punished by parents for not learning the lesson.
When the child is asked, "Why am I being punished?" parents say,
because you need to learn lessons.
Years later in school, a similar model of rewards and punish-
ments is fused with the concept of lessons. For example if I learn my
arithmetic lesson, I'm rewarded. If I don' t, I'm punished (have to do
Spiritualizing • 145
extra homework). What impact could occur in the future. "If I am
good, God gives me more things" (bliss, money, good relationship,
etc.) because I learned my lesson. If something bad happens, I must
have a lesson to learn. Spiritualization believes in Good behavior =
Good outcomes, Bad behavior = bad outcomes. If I'm good get;
if I'm bad I won't get. Good people get good, bad people get bad.
Chaos occurs because this is not the case.
The Discrepancy
For example, Mafia people own houses on the beach, and good
people get stuck with bad cars. Incongruent experience causes
chaos, to be rationalized spiritually by the child within. "I guess the
person had karma from another life. That' s why good didn' t happen
to a good person." Or, "I wonder what lessons they need to learn?"
"I wonder why they created bad happenings to themselves."
Spiritual Re, rames and Rationalizations
   1. Bad happens to Good: "I guess that there is a lesson
they needed to learn."
   2. Bad happens to Good: "There must be a higher purpose
or higher plan."
   3. God gives me what I need: "When you don't get what
you need, you must not have really needed it."
Spiritualization has very strong cultural roots. Schools of
thought, philosophies, which give ways to alleviate suffering, are
deeply rooted in the inner child. What is the central issue? Organiz-
ing chaos.
For some reason, possibly due to the cause-effect and linear
nature of thoughts, we resist chaos. Noted Feldenkrais trainer Dr.
Carl Ginsburg related a story to me about the founder of Feldenkrais
(a form of body-mind awareness), Moshe Feldenkrais. Feldenkrais
was leading a training and asked the group of about 60 trainees,
"What is the purpose of the nervous system?"
Students came up with all sorts of answers which Feldenkrais
dismissed. His answer? "The purpose of the nervous system is to
organize chaos."
In the same way, the inner child organizes chaos by transferring
the system she created to handle Mom and Dad onto the rest of the
146 . The Dark Side of the Inner Child
world. The child inside the adult can roll along on automatic pilot,
treating the past as the present, creating the future from the memory
of the past, in an attempt to fit the present-time world into a system
that appears to make sense. Problems arise for the adult because the
child within does not let in information contrary to the system, thus
freezing the child within the adult. The world becomes familiar and
stable but rigid, boring and robotic. It is the resistance to chaos
emptiness or unexplainability of life that creates systems that
organize chaos, and keep age-regressed inner children creating
worlds that limit ours and others' freedom.
5. Inner World Trances of the Dark Side of the Inner Child: Gods
and Goddesses. For those of us who were unable to idealize parents
or make them into gods, comes a different third level trance state,
an internalized, idealized Mom/Dad and the inner-God trance. For
example in the case of a wounded child who cannot idealize his
external mother as "all-powerful," "all- good," or "all-knowing"
comes a new and improved trance: creating an inner world. Ideal-
ized Moms/Dads become "inner gods," or "inner goddesses." In
Eastern cultures, worship of the inner mother, goddess or Devi is
prescribed to handle the ills of life. Certainly most religious systems
ask you to find the God within. This is a brilliant way to handle the
external chaos of a dysfunctional family. Create an inner-idealized
family and then spiritualize them. A child cannot depend on the
outer Mom or Dad, so why not create an idealized inner Mom and
Dad? Then through transpersonal transference, which resists chaos,
have the created internal gods and goddesses give us the answers
and explanations the other Dad/gods and Mom/goddesses could
not. Often archetypes are internalized, idealized moms and dads
that the child created because there was no one to fulfill these roles.
In some psychologies and religious systems, the inner is said to
be better than the outer. Inner gods/goddesses are better (more
ideal), and people who are introverted are more evolved than those
who are extroverted. When a system is created to make sense of the
world and the world makes no sense to the inner child, developing
an introverted system with super-idealized parents (now called
gods or goddesses), keeps the psychological system of the inner
child alive.
Spiritualizing • 147
Lies
At this juncture I wish to reiterate the same point made in the
preamble. It is not my desire to destroy, blame, or shame those
involved in a spiritual group or system. The emphasis on a spiritual
group, however, could be better served by each individual taking
responsibility for his trances. Stated another way, P.D. Ouspensky,
noted Fourth Way teacher, called psychology the study of lies. Each
one of us is responsible for the lies he/she erects and tells to herself.
A true spiritual warrior needs to look at, acknowledge and dismantle
these lies. This takes great courage. It is not for me to say whether
or not you are lying to yourself and spiritualizing; that is your job.
I am attempting to point out possible pitfalls that I have observed
within myself.
Recently workshop participants asked me why there was such
a lack of integrity in the world. I said, "Lies and integrity are not
black or white. Integrity begins inside oneself, not outside oneself.
The more you lie to yourself, the more you lie to others."
In the ancient yoga system, called Raja Yoga, the first prelimi-
nary steps ask the participant to not lie. This is really about not
telling lies to yourself to avoid pain. Therefore, it is the purpose of
this section to uncover at all costs the lies you tell yourself, no matter
how small. Therein is freedom.
An incest survivor from a dysfunctional family experiences
chaos. He is driven to create a good Dad inside, who is always there,
calm and peaceful. This gives the child' s life meaning and stability,
but it robs the individual of understanding. By creating structures
(lies) to handle chaos, we lose ourselves: the one who is observing
and creating these structures. To give another example of the self-
to-self lie, recently I was giving a workshop in the Midwest. The
man sponsoring me was complaining about a woman with whom he
was involved. He said, "I can't believe I chose the same type of
woman again." I said, "That's because you lied to yourself from the
beginning." After a moment or two of shock he said, "You know,
you're right. I knew from the beginning what was happening, and
lied to myself." This freed him immensely, because he could now
take responsibility for his actions rather than feeling victimized by
her actions.
In my case, the most powerful feeling of interconnection and
unity with humanity I ever experienced was at my first Incest
148 o The Dark Side of the Inner Child  
Survivors Anonymous Group. Why? Because the lies I told myself
and the pretending I played with others, in a moment of telling the
truth, disappeared. It takes an immense amount of energy to hold
back a secret and lie and pretend. When those lies are admitted as
lies, the vulnerability and interconnection naturally occurs. This is
the key point to remember. If our ultimate goal is to discover who
we are, then the most important step is to look at our created internal
realities, acknowledging their purpose, studying how they help us
to resist or organize chaos. The final step is to discover ourselves as
the observer and the creator of our internal images and experiences.
This allows us to face ourselves more directly, and finally to break
through beyond even the observer and the reality created by the
observer. This is discussed and explored in detail in an experiential
way in my book Quantum Consciousness: The Guide to Experienc-
ing Quantum Psychology.
The Nervous System
Many forms of psychotherapy suggest integrating or getting in
touch with your inner gods or goddesses. This phenomenon, ac-
cording to Carl Jung, M.D., appears in a similar way in Eastern,
Western as well as rich/poor, primitive and industrialized societies.
This way of handling chaos, what Jung calls an "archtype," might
be the universal way that the nervous system organizes chaos. This
understanding de-mystifies the world of the collective unconscious.
Might not the internal creation be a wish or attempt to create an
understanding to avoid chaos? In India praying to the Divine
Mother is culturally acceptable as is praying to Mother Mary for
Roman Catholics. Possibly, the collective unconscious is not where
these universal experiences live, but rather are a collective defen-
sive trance structure, which is cross-cultural and universal, a part of
the nervous system developed to organize the pain and chaos of life.
If this be the case, then we may not be subject to a mystical
world of gods and goddesses but rather a world of created gods and
goddess, created by the child and passed down from generation to
generation in the form of ritual, tradition and folklore.*
It is not my goal to destroy belief structures. It is my purpose to
empower you, the creator of the belief structure. When finding out  
Spiritualizing • 149
who you are, all belief structures, that are like sacred cows, stand in
the way ! Noted philosopher Alfred Korsybski said, "The map, is not
the territory." In this way beliefs, ideas, images are not you. Rather
you are the observer and creator (the territory) of the images (the
map).
The Next Step
Handling spiritualization
   1. Notice what religious or spiritual philosophy your
inner child seems to be attracted to.
   2. Write down the basic beliefs of that spiritual or reli-
gious philosophy.
   3. Notice the beliefs of the inner child and write them
down. Note that the beliefs of the inner infant, (being
taken care of) are often "wishes."
   4. Compare the two belief structures to see if there is a
parallel.
   5. Notice where the inner child may live in your body
(mouth, heart, pelvis, etc.).
   6. Notice which spiritualization trances you're inner in-
fant/child uses. If many spiritual beliefs match the
beliefs of the inner child, then identify which ones fit
from the list below.
   1. Trance-personal trance-ference:
   2. Trance personal Co-dependence
   3. Specializing Pain
   4. Specializing
   5. Internal Gods and Goddesses
   2. Identify the spiritualizations, generalizations, and be-
liefs the inner child has and write them down.
   3. Identify the spiritual or psychological philosophy that
the inner child belongs to or believes as true.
   4. Dialogue with the inner child asking questions and
writing down the inner child' s answers.
150 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
   1. What do you (the inner child) not know about
yourself?
   2. What do you (the inner child) resist?
C. By you (the inner child) taking on and believing a
philosophy, what are you avoiding experiencing?
   4. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting chaos?
   5. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting the unknown?
   6. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting confusion?
   7. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting being overwhelmed?
   8. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting fear?
   9. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting loss of self?
   10. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting being out of control?
   11. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting emptiness?
I. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting feeling crazy?
   13. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting the void?
   14. By you (the inner child) taking on this philosophy
are you resisting space?
   15. When did you (the inner child) decide to take on a
spiritual or psychological system to handle one or
more of the above? Write down your answers.
   16. Is there an incident, trauma, or event that you (the
inner child) witnessed or observed which solidi-
fied the system or world view? Write down your
answer.
   17. Ask yourself: If I give up the inner child's spiritu-
alization, what would be left? Write down your
answer.
Spiritualizing • 151
   18. Noting what would be left, ask yourself: Am I
willing to give up the inner child' s trance of spiri-
tualizing? If not, why not?
   19. If no, ask yourself: What am I resisting by not
giving up the spiritualization? Write down your
answer.
Homework
Part 1 .For this week, every time a spiritualization or
method of organizing chaos comes into your
mind, call it out and label it "spiritualization
trance."
Part 2.Note how spiritualization helps to explain the
unexplainable in life.
Conclusion
This format provides a step that will get you more in touch with
the different spiritualizations that occur. This provides an ability to
observe and interrupt the pop-up ideas of life, which get in the way
of experiencing life in the present. Earlier I mentioned awareness as
the solvent to the glue of spiritualization. Spiritualization is a two-
edged sword. Although it provides temporary comfort from chaos,
it robs you in present time of a world view without past inter-fear-
ence. The intention is to free you from past-world views of the inner
child/infant. The child within has a window that it looks through.
This view when left behind offers us the opportunity to enjoy
present-time experience and the freedom of pure, uninterrupted
awareness, uninhibited by memory, distortion, or resistance to
chaos. It is in this pure, uninterrupted awareness and self-remem-
bering, without past inter-fear-ence, that the natural interconnection
and unity becomes available. This natural unity consciousness,
called "quantum consciousness," is the force and connection that
provides us with true, natural, effortless spirituality. This is our
birthright, and this becomes an experiential knowingness, as the
152 at* The Dark Side of the Inner Child
past and automatic trance associations of the inner-child are trance-
ended.
  
  
  

The Bible
1 Corinthians, 13 : 1 1
•Epilogue  
Foundations of
Identities, The
Tao of Chaos
As we say good-bye for now to the inner child identity, what are
we saying hello to? To begin with, the inner child identity, with all
its trances, strategies, thoughts, and feelings, was born of two
parents, chaos and resistance. If Moshe Feldenkrais is right that the
purpose of the nervous system is to organize chaos, then the
observer uses the inner child to organize chaos by creating strate-
gies to deal with dysfunctional family life. This inner child, is a
manifestation of the observer and the creative aspect of our nervous
system.
Although the inner child helped our survival by deadening—or
certainly dampening sensory input, that deadening robbed us of
our true nature. Truly, few of us could deny that a child born of chaos
and resistance to chaos can do little but create more chaos in its
154 ► The Dark Side of the Inner Child
internal subjective world and the external world. As we say good-
bye to this child of chaos, it is important to open a new chapter
working with, absorbing, and living in chaos without re-creating it
automatically. My forthcoming book, The Tao of Chaos: Essence
and the Enneagram, Quantum Consciousness, Volume II was
written with this agenda in mind.
As you recall from an earlier section of this book, chaos was
defined by as
"utter confusion or disorder, wholly without organization
or order." (American College Dictionary, pg. 20)
Certainly we have seen that the inner child is a manifestation of that
disorder or, in psychological terms, dysfunction.
The second definition of chaos by Webster,
"the infinity of space or formless matter supposed to have
preceded the existence of the ordered universe," (American
College Dictionary, pg. 201)
will take the front seat in The Tao of Chaos. Why do we all resist
nothingness or what the Buddhist calls "void"? Let me explain by
calling to mind two people who came to see me for psychotherapy.
The first person, a businessman, suffered from acute anxiety.
We first took apart the trances and the basic structures of his inner
child. What was left was a much deeper, much more terrifying and
much more resisted experience... the feeling of void, no-thing-ness.
We found that this man had resisted this ever-present void within
himself to so intense a degree because he felt he would be swal-
lowed up by it and disappear.
Since chaos also is defined as the "infinity of space," our work
began to move in the direction of seeing the void as a friend, always
there, untouched and quiet. His anxiety disappeared. Why? He no
longer was resisting that void or chaos.
Another example was a woman medical doctor who came to see
me, suffering from obsessive-compulsive thoughts and behavior.
This included everything from work to relationships. She sought
my help because after having left her home at 19 to get married, and
a divorce after 25 years of marriage, she had gotten immediately
into another relationship. Now as this new relationship of four years
was ending, she was in terror. Once again we processed through the


  
identities and strategies of the past and present, but the terror still
remained. Once again, I was struck by her resistance to the empti-
ness, which she felt was always there as a threat. Her
obsessive-compulsive tendency was a way to resist the void by
trying to fill it up. We worked through the impossibility of filling up
the void, and as she began allowing the emptiness rather than
resisting it, the terror subsided. She felt calm and at peace. Further-
more, in addition to the terror leaving and the obsessive-compulsive
attempts to fill up the emptiness leaving, her fear of being alone,
which was associated with the emptiness, also departed.
Looking at the inner emptiness represents the more sedate side
of what would normally be called chaos and became my own next
stage of development. I explored the newly emerging "theory of
chaos," born of physics, and its application to the field of psychol-
ogy and self help. My upcoming book is about looking at chaos as
it reflects our daily problems and solutions, hence its title, The Tao
of Chaos. Tao is the Chinese term for "The Way," or the way of
chaos.
In this book, along with my earlier works, Trances People Live:
Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychology, and Quantum Con-
sciousness: The Guide to Experiencing Quantum Psychology, we
looked at identities, roles, trances and their relationships to psychol-
ogy, physics, and religions.
The Tao of Chaos will provide methods and approaches to
embrace chaos and its sister, the void, as means to discovering a
deeper sense of who we are without resistance.
With love,
your brother
Stephen
•Appendix I  
The Trigger,
Changing the Button
A "trigger" is a button that gets pushed and that begins the
uncomfortable emergence of a problem state. Most of us are
acquainted with the expression "getting your buttons pushed."
What must be remembered when you get your buttons pushed and
find you are going into fear, anger, etc., is that it is the inner child
that gets his buttons pushed, not the adult. The adult looks at the
world, then suddenly something triggers a reaction from the inner
child. These reactions of the inner child are like an old movie, and
need to be looked at and seen for what they are a reaction
mechanism. To do this you change the inner child's view of the
button.
In the past psychotherapies have been designed to deal with the
individual, or to acknowledge the family and the inter-personal
context. Most therapies fall under the category of the former and
hold the myth (lie) that if you work out your "stuff" then you will
have what you want. "Stuff" is all the unfinished and non-experi-
enced experiences, body armors, breathing patterns, etc. When all
158The Dark Side of the Inner Child
this is dealt with, "the world is yours!" This disregards the context
of society in which the individual lives. Systems therapy, structural
and strategic therapy assume specifically that any and all experi-
ences are context-dependent, or relate only to the situation in which
a behavior happens and occurs. These systems postulate that when
you change the interactions of the family or the context in which a
problem occurs, the problem leaves. In these theories it is the
context that permits the emergence of a problem; this ignores the
individual.
My approach integrates both you, the individual, and your inner
world (intrapersonal), with others (interpersonal context) so that
both models can live peaceably together. For this purpose I will
define "trigger" as something in the environment that pushes the
button that creates the unwanted trance response of the inner child.
As an example, a woman who came to see me had been sexually
abused in her childhood. This experience generalized. The trigger
called "Dad" generalized to all men, and created an internal fear
reaction. Her muscles tightened, and she experienced emotional
shutting down. To be in the trance state of the inner child itself
requires a shrinking of the focus of one's attention, and doing that
means resources normally available to an adult are not accessible.
The task becomes one of awakening the observer so that the inner
child identity can be observed and dismantled. Resources can then
become available and the trance or the inner child (automatic
reaction) lessens.
When a client comes to me as a therapist, each word of
description lets me know how she creates her internal experience.
My attitude is, "Teach me how the inner child creates your prob-
lem." By listening to her words, and changing the meaning of the
words, she can alter the groove in the record so that the song plays
with a different tune. Let's say you give me limited associations
with particular words. I expand on each of them. For example, in
"all men are untrustworthy," untrustworthy is the limited meaning
fused with "men." Changing this offers an opportunity to experi-
ence new meanings for "men," thus yielding new perspectives on
how to see men. In order to do this, the inner child within the adult
must be seen for what it is, an identity created by the observer during
trauma and chaos. This shifts how it views the world.
The child within a man was telling me he was afraid to make
Appendix I . 159
changes in his life. The word change scared him. Change was fused
with fear. I began talking about changing clothes to begin the
process of creating new meanings for the word change. I talked
about changing position when he made love with his wife so he
could... feel more comfortable, "When you are making love, part of
the time you are on your back and sometimes you are sitting up—
but you can ...make those changes and ...feel more comfortable and
find a more comfortable position for your legs or arms. Sometimes
it can...be even more exciting to explore different positions to
change into." I talked about making change in your pocket, chang-
ing underwear, etc. The key word—change—needed to have many
meanings.
It is very important for all of us to notice how we limit ourselves
by limiting the meanings of words.
Exercise
Below are word associations to help you discern how limited
the inner child makes us feel. In these exercises, fill in the blanks,
write down your answers and notice what pops up. Write down your
associations to each word, until nothing pops up.
I am
Men are
I am not
Men aren't
Women are
I can't
I'll never
I always
Filling in the blanks helps us through the first step: identifying
the belief of the inner child that holds us to a limited perspective of
self and others.
Step I: Notice you are the observer of the child who has
a belief.
Step II: Observe where in your physical or mental space
this belief resides.
160 . The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Step III: Does the idea have an emotion or feeling to it?
Step IV: Does it change your perception of yourself?
Step V: Does it change your perception of the world?
Step VI: Experience that you are the observer of the inner
child's world view.
This process will help you to escape the limited association of
a past-time child-like identity. As mentioned earlier, it is the
interruption of outward motion or e-motion ("e" means "outward")
that causes self-defeating behavior. When you interrupt the out-
ward motion of energy, you experience self-defeating behavior. For
example, let' s imagine a child has anger toward Mom. Mom thwarts
the anger and punishes the child. The child's anger has been
interrupted by Mom.
In this case the child learns to interrupt the outward motion of
anger by internalizing Mom's voice (inner dialogue), i.e., "You
shouldn't be angry." Since the motion is interrupted, the energy
must go somewhere. The child puts it back on herself. The inner
child then develops body postures and chronic body armor to block
the anger from being expressed, and often from being felt.
To create new meaning for the external "button-pusher," ask
yourself, "What causes the response? What is the external stimulus
that triggers this pattern?"
A man came to see me who was positive the woman he had been
involved with for several years was going to break up with him. He
had been married for 15 years when his wife left him for another
man. Seven years after his wife left, he only had one-night stands
because he was still hurt. He reported, "I went into a shell." He then
met the woman in question, and they became emotionally involved,
living together on and off.
Things were a little uncertain. At one point, they were probably
getting married; then it didn't happen. He said to me, "I'm afraid she
is going to leave me. I have extreme anxiety." Anxiety is "futurizing".
He was catastrophizing that she was going to leave him. From his
history of women leaving him, he was already forecasting the
future. He felt incredible anxiety and pain. He was in the inner-child
Appendix I 416 161
identity, replaying the movies of past abandonments and creating,
through his own inner dialogue and futurizing, "She is going to
leave me." What I wanted to know was how this man got into a
rejection trance with this woman, creating the experience called,
"She's going to leave me." The inner child hypnotized him, but it
was triggered by her.
In my own case, when I am driving down the street and I see a
police car in front of me, I tighten my muscles and take a deep breath
or stop my breath. From the trigger the policeman I create a
catastrophizing trance. I am already imagining a catastrophic thing,
he'll pull me over and give me a ticket. I am already experiencing
anxiety and tightness in my muscles. The policeman is the trigger.
This trance is triggered by police and is from the past experience of
having five policeman beat me up in the 1960s during an anti-
Vietnam war demonstration. The stuck part of myself overlays the
incident of the 1960s on the 1990s and, thus, creates a catastrophizing
and fear trance. In my case, as with the others, there was no
differentiation.
I asked this man, "What exactly is the trigger?" He said, "Well,
she hugs me. When she sees me she goes like this: she taps me on
the back or puts an arm around me. I can tell that it' s becoming more
of a friendly relationship than a lover relationship." The hand and
touch are what triggers the response. To him that says she is being
friendly rather than sexual. My task is to differentiate the trigger (to
make into smaller pieces).
I asked, "Which finger feels most friendly?" He said, "The
middle finger." The trigger is the way she touches him. He said his
problem is that when she touches him, the middle finger feels only
friendliness. Then he moves into his trigger response called, "She
is being friendly, she is not my lover, and she is going to leave me
at some point."
My goals was to find variations in the response pattern, to add
new meanings to his trigger (touch) response, hence, the middle
finger. I looked at my hand and he looked at his middle finger, and
I said, "Which finger is the most sexual?"
Patient:"The index finger."
Stephen:"Which finger is the most affectionate?"
162 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Patient:"The ring finger."
Stephen: "The ring finger?" And I added, "Which finger
is the most sensual?"
Patient:"The index finger."
Stephen: "The index finger?" (The one that points the
way.) "Which finger is the most interesting?"
Patient:"It is the pinkie."
Stephen: "And what about the thumb?"
Patient:"It doesn't have any real purpose. It's just to
pick things up."
Stephen: "So when she wants to pick up on you, you can
feel it in the thumb?" (new meaning for the
trigger,)
Patient:"Yes."
Stephen:"I don't have to tell you that in America this
means one thing; this gesture means some-
thing else. In India this (waving good-bye)
means hello. In America this gesture means
good-bye. This gesture in India means, "I want
to go to the bathroom (using hand and finger
gestures). This sign means "I want to hitch-
hike."
So with each finger I differentiated the trigger into little, exact
details. This expanded the meaning of the interpersonal trigger,
which changed the trance. I created options experientially as to what
this hand means. Basically, a stimulus in the environment (button)
is like a movie director who says, "Roll rejection scene, take #582."
A drug abuser was seeing me. It was his fourth session. He has
Appendix I • 163
no impulse for drugs. But he came and said, "There is a lot more to
work on."
"When I meet somebody, I always feel like they reject me. I feel
I am less than them, that I am unworthy."
The man talked about going to the herb store before the session.
There was a man behind the counter he knows. He moved in front
of the man, and he started to feel unworthy, like he had to impress
him. So what did I write down? "Unworthy, impress—I'm not good
enough," which was his inner dialogue.
I asked, "What triggers this response, what about this man at the
herb store triggers this? Is it his posture, is it the way his legs are?
Is it the way his mouth is held? Nose? Is he looking away? Is his neck
turned? What is it?"
Patient:"His eyes."
Stephen: "His left eye or his right eye?"
Patient:"His left eye."
Stephen: "What part of his left eye?"
Patient:"The part that wrinkles below the eye."
Stephen: "What part of the face do you imagine is most
accepting? Which eye?"
I started to break down the face into a hundred little squares. "Which
part is saying, go away? You are not worth anything. Which part is
saying come here,I love you?" I went through all the different parts
of the face. He was only focusing on about 1/25 of what is present
in the face. Then I had him imagine his father and go through all the
different things using his father. His father is one of the big
problems; his father was a drug abuser and an alcoholic. His father's
face was the trigger. He would trance-fer his father' s face onto other
men. I kept coming back to the differentiations in the trigger.
Eventually I talked about, "face of the earth, latitude and longitude,
and how the weather is different in the Caribbean and Alaska, and
so on. This is what I mean by differentiating the trigger.
164 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
When someone complains of pain, physical pain, what kind
of pain is it? Is it a lancing pain? Is it a burning pain? Is it a
stabbing pain? You differentiate it. I say, "Which sensations do
you want to work on first? The lancing or burning one?" The
more variations on any experience you give, the more it expands
the focus of the inner child, making the inner child's boundaries
more permeable. This allows information in and awakens the
observer. When this client looks at a man now, he might look at
him and think, "I'm not worth it," and then glance at the cheek,
which says, "I'm worth it." He might glance at the mouth, which
says, "I really care about you," or at the other part, the forehead,
which may say something different.
For homework, I asked the client to intentionally put a father
mask on all men. Since the inner child is unconsciously doing it, I
asked him (as theoberser) to create it intentionally. Thus he gains
control of the automatic mechanism of the inner child and shifts to
being the observer or creator of his experience.
Summary of Methods
Re-associate. Create new meanings that trigger different responses.
Differentiate. Break into small pieces whatever triggers the un-
wanted trance. The most important step is to add context. This is
done by expanding the focus of attention or trance so that the person
includes the whole trigger, i.e., by allowing the whole face, not just
the left eye, resources will emerge spontaneously from the client.
Needless to say it is the continual expansion of the focus of attention
or awareness of the inner child that allows the observer/creator to
emerge and take back the power from the inner child.
Conclusion
In the final analysis, an individual is "stuck" because the inner
child does not allow choice. The adult does not experience choice.
The stimulus response worked for the inner child and the adult
decides this is the way the world is. These conclusions, along with
the trances shrinking the focus of attention, create a shrinking
number of choices and available resources.
Appendix I 4 165
Consequently, the more associations and creation of new mean-
ings the inner child has, the weaker the "fixed" attention of the inner
child becomes.
Principle X: The more attention is narrowed and de-
creased, the more the choices and resources are narrowed
and decreased.
Principle XI: The more expanded the focus of attention,
the greater the expansion in choices and resources.
Principle XII: The greater the ability of the observer to
create and dissolve meanings in present time, the greater
the experiential freedom.
•Appendix II  
Advanced Self-
Trancing, Creative
Uses of Trance
Anesthesia is a trance that exists for the purpose of temporarily
relieving physical discomfort. We have all had the experience of a
headache's pain diminishing when we became absorbed in another
activity, such as a suspenseful movie. This absorption of attention
is considered a natural anesthesia.
It is of monumental importance to understand acute physical
pain as an outcry from the body for attention, therefore, each person
should seek professional consultation for pain, rather than not
acknowledging this important natural process.
In this chapter a temporary way to offer the inner child a
contract or agreement is presented. For example, I once had a
168 • The Dark Side of the Inner Child
toothache and it was 11:00 p.m. It served me no useful purpose to
have a sleepless night. So I chose to receive and acknowledge the
message called pain, i.e., "I have a toothache," was received and
acknowledged, and I agreed to go to the dentist the following day.
The agreement, "I got the message, take care of the message (the
pain) and allow myself some sleep." This is a self-to-self trance in
present time utilizing anesthesia, which maintains the emotional
health of the individual.
Ways of Creating Anesthesia
   1. Symbols: Ask yourself for a symbol (mountain, river, tiger, etc.)
that might help you with the pain. Place the symbol into the physical
body.
I once saw a client with a headache who created the symbol of
Richard Nixon' s head as his own head during a migraine. He smiled
as Nixon had the pain, not him.
   2. Differentiation: In any differentiation work, it can be first noted
that pain is experienced as a block or undifferentiated mass. I divide
the pain by asking the client or myself to describe it. (You can ask
yourself, for example, if the pain is sharp.) "Which part of the
pained area is the sharpest, the left or the right? Which part of the
pain area is the most interesting? Which part is the most peculiar?"
By differentiating the pain, the subject' s experience of the pained
area changes rapidly.
Another key in differentiation is to understand that pain is
experienced as (a) past or remembered pain (b) present pain, and (c)
future imagined pain, for which there are consequences if the pain
continues. By focusing on the present, much of the imagined pain
can be eliminated through the exclusion of past remembered and
future imagined pain.
For example, a client complained about pain relating to her
period. The pain was around her colon and she would double up
with discomfort. This reaction was intensified or triggered by
overwork. My first question-suggestion was, "Do you know what
a period is? A time to pause before you go on, and if you double one
period on top of another, you get a colon (0, another kind of pause."
Appendix II ► 169
Simply put, offer different meanings that insure different subjective
experiences.
A psychologist friend of mind was undergoing a D and C. Prior
to receiving this procedure she identified some old emotional issues
in her life and imagined that they were in her uterus. Receiving only
local anesthesia, she imagined the procedure to be cleaning out her
"old stuff," and reported she felt euphoric during the process. She
created new meanings for the experience and remained discon-
nected as she watched them from that perspective.
   3. Disconnection: You can imagine yourself in a variety of
different places, scenes, events, with people or alone, which discon-
nect you from experiencing the present.
As an example, a recent workshop participant complained of
pain in the ear. She developed an image of a cave in her brain. This
cave was a comfortable place to view the painful experience, thus
disconnecting her from the pain. Other people I know imagine
themselves in another place or time yelling angrily at someone they
have been in conflict with. This disconnected them from the
present-time pain. A client of mine receiving dental work reported
that, while anticipating pain, she imagined herself talking to people
with whom she was extremely angry. This distracted her enough for
the pain not to be felt.
Whether you disconnect into a pleasant or unpleasant situation,
you can remove yourself just enough to shift the unpleasant expe-
rience. It needs to be noted that an adult can choose in present time
to disconnect or not. The inner child identity disconnects automati-
cally, without choice, such as in the trance of sensory distortion, "I
can't feel" (Chapter 13). The key word is choice.
   4. Spreading sensations: In a headache the head is the localized
area of attention and pain is not spread equally throughout the body.
The approach for relief is to suggest that sensations can move. By
suggesting that sensations can move (into the neck, toes, feet),
provides an equal distribution of sensations.
From a Buddhist point of view, much suffering is caused by the
experience of being separate from another or separate from every-
thing. Therefore, a reconnection to everything is a powerful
experience of reunion.
170 The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Sexual Tantra
If sensations during sexual contact are experienced in a local-
ized area (the genitals, mouth, breasts), the same spreading technique
can be employed by allowing the sensations (in penis or clitoris) to
spread through the entire body. Sex then becomes a means to
enhance and increase energy throughout the entire system (body).
The focus of attention and the inner absorption creates a reconnection
of genitals to body that promotes a deeper sense of self.
If this practice is continued, the utilized energy created through
sexual contact allows successive plateaus to be reached, creating a
deeper experience of self. It cannot be over-emphasized that this
process requires the intention to not orgasm immediately but rather
to increase the stimulation to bring about a deeper sense of connec-
tion and orgasm.
   5. Spaces between sensations: In handling pain, as mentioned
before, the sensations are felt as one experience. The first set of
suggestions involves requesting that, rather than one long sensa-
tion, there be a sensation and then a space or gap, and then a
sensation, and then a space. Usually what occurs is a throbbing
feeling. This is a good sign of effectiveness. Then suggest a longer
and longer space or gap between the painful sensations. It becomes
very apparent that the sensation can then be further regulated
utilizing appropriate suggestions.
   6. Classical approach - acute pain: In the classical approach, the
area to anesthetize can be marked off by imagining a mental circle
around the painful area. Suggest that if the pain is in an ankle, for
example, to see the leg as transparent, and see particularly the
wiring of the nerves that carry the painful sensations of the leg.
Eventually, the route of the nerves ("wiring") can be traced into the
back of the brain. Suggestions offered for visualizing can be of a
computer room or a telephone switchboard, where the wires con-
nect from the ankle into the switchboard or into the computer room
in the brain. Then (with permission of the unconscious), disconnect
the painful sensations.
Appendix II • 171
Conclusion
As with all self-trancing, this chapter deals with present-time
choice. In the former chapters, the inner child makes present and
future automatically look like the past to the adult. In self-trancing,
there is choice; in inner child trances, there is no choice.


•Bibliography  
American College Dictionary, New York: Random House. 1963.
Beck, Aaron T., Rush, A. John, Shaw, Brain F. and Emory, Gary. Cognitive
Therapy of Depression, New York: The Gifford Press, 1979.
Berne, Eric. Games People Play. New York: Grove Press. 1964.
Capra, Fritjof. The Tao of Physics. Bantam Books. 1976.
Erickson, M. H. and Rossi, E.L. Hypnotherapy: An Exploratory Casebook. New
York: Irvington, 1979.
Erickson, M. and Rossi, E. The February Man: Evolving Consciousness and
Facilitating New Identity in Hypnotherapy. New York: BrahuerfMaze, 1989
Goldstein, Joseph and Kornfield, Jack. Seeking the Heart of Wisdom: The Path of
Insight Meditation. Boston & London: Shambala. 1987.
Haley, J. Advanced Techniques of Hypnosis and Therapy: Selected Papers of
Milton H. Erickson, M.D. New York: Grune & Stratton. 1967.
Herbert, Nick. Quantum Reality: Beyond the New Physics. New York: Anchor
Press. 1985.
Hoffer, Eric. The True Believer. New York. Harper and Row. 1951.
Khan, Pir Vilagat Inayat. The Call of the Dervish, New Lebanon, New York:
Omega Publications, 1981.
McKay, Mathew, Davis, Martha, and Fanning, Patrick. Thoughts and Feelings:
The Art of Cognitive Stress Intervention, Oakland, CA: New Harbinger
Publications, 1981.
174 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Mudallar Devaraja. Day by Day with Bhajavan. Tiruvannamalai, S. India: Sri
Ramanashram, 1977.
Nisargadatta Maharaj. I Am That, Volume I. Bombay: Chetana, 1978.
Nisargadatta Mahara. I Am That, Volume II. Bombay: Chetana, 1978.
Peat, David F. and Briggs, John. The Turbulent Mirror: An Illustrated Guide to
Chaos Theory & the Science of Wholeness. New York: Harper & Row. 1989.
Peat, David F. The Philosophers Stone: Chaos, Synchronicity, and the Hidden
Order of the World. New York: Bantam Books. 1991.
Reich, Wilhelm. The Function of the Orgasm. The Discovery of the Orgone. New
York: World Publishing, 1942.
Russell, Bertrand. The ABC of Relativity. Mentor Book. New York: New American
Library. 1958.
Suzuki, Shunru. Zen Mind, Beginners Mind. New York. Weatherhill. 1970.
Talbot, Michael. Mysticism and the New Physics. New York: Bantam Books.
1981.
Wilson, Colin. G.I. Gurdjieff The War Against Sleep. Aquarian Press, England.
1980.
Wittgenstein, Ludwig. Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. Great Britian. Routledge
& Kegan Paul, Ltd. 1961.
Wolf, Fred Alan. Taking the quantum Leap: the New Physics for Nonscientists.
Harper & Row. 1981.
Wolinksy, Stephen H. Trances People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum
Psychology. Connecticut: Bramble Co. 1991.
Wolinsky, Stephen H. Quantum Consciousness: The Guide to Experiencing
Quantum Psychology. (1993)
Wolinsky, Stephen H. The Tao of Chaos. Forthcoming.
• Index
A
Age regression 25, 26, 29, 31, 32, 33, 35,
42, 131
Age-regression 22, 35, 42, 43, 57, 84, 86,
97, 108, 119, 124, 125, 133, 143,
144
Alexander 112
Amnesia 9, 52, 75, 111, 112, 113, 115
Anesthesia 119, 167, 169
Awfulizing 83, 90, 91
B
Beck, Aaron 2
Berne, Eric 2
Bio-Energetics 112
Blaming 27
Blocking-out 22, 23, 61, 73, 74, 75, 76,
77, 78, 88, 90, 97
C
Catastrophizing 40, 44, 45, 76, 160, 161
Chaos 2, 5, 6, 27, 35, 41, 43, 89, 94, 98,
112, 124, 128, 129, 137, 139, 140,
141, 145, 146, 147, 148, 151, 153
Cognitive therapy 3, 65
Con-fusion 27, 76, 93, 95
Control confusion 98
D
De-hypnosis 1, 7, 8, 10, 21, 22, 23, 24,
32, 33
Deletion 111
Dialogues 97  
Dis-connection 20, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 58,
59, 60, 61, 62, 63
Disappearing 52
Disappearing trance 52, 62
Dissociation 20, 23, 51, 52
E
Ellis, Albert 2, 3, 5, 9, 40
Emotional sensory distortion 117, 118
Enneagram 94
Erickson, Milton H. 19, 85, 98
Explainer 45, 48
Externalization 107
F
Fallacy of fairness 45, 46, 49
Fantasizing 40, 41, 48, 84, 86
Feldenkrais 112
Forgetting 111
Fusion 54, 58
Fusion trance 62
Futurizing 22, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 49,
84, 85, 86, 160
G
Generalizes 20
Gestalt Therapy 2, 98
Grandiosity 132, 137, 143
H
Healer trance 57
176 + The Dark Side of the Inner Child
Heisenberg, Werner 14, 19
Herzberg, Frederick 86, 96
Hoffa, Eric 136
Hyper-vigilance trance 58
Hypermnesia 114
Hypersensitive distortion 118
Hypersensitivity 117
I
I am not my body trance 62
Idealizing 129
Identity distortion 106
Identity dream 107
illusion 83, 84
Illusioning 22, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87,
88, 89, 90
Infant trance 132
Infantile grandiosity 57, 126
Infantile trance 128
Inner dialogue 22, 42, 43, 65, 66, 70
Inner voices 97
Interpretive distortion 74
J
Justifier 45, 48
L
Lennon, John v, 1, 25, 26, 39, 81, 106,
117, 123, 130
Life force 28
M
Magical thinking 125, 132, 134
Medication 52
Meditation 52, 53
Mind read 16, 28, 89, 90
Minuchin, Salvador 54
Montalvo, Braulio 54
P
Participator 14
Penis, Fritz 2
Personalizing 119
Planning 44, 48
Psychosynthesis 2
Q
Quantum Consciousness 10, 52, 94, 124
Quantum Physics 19
Quantum Psychology 1, 5, 15, 89
R
Ram Dass 35
Reich, Wilhelm 28
Reichian 112
Relationship confusion 97
Rolfing 112
S
Schema 2, 3
Selective trance 82, 90
Self-deceptive amnesia 111
Self-talk 22, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70
Sensory distortion 53, 61, 76, 117
energy dispersal 119
pain 118
Specialness 137, 141, 142
Spiritualization 28, 41, 53, 55, 58, 84, 94
Spiritualizing 55, 123
Structural and Strategic Family Therapy
56
Structural Family Therapy 54
Super trance-personal spiritualizations
140
Super-spiritualization 135
T


N
Nisargadatta Maharaj 16, 124
Not owning trance 62
0
Outsider identity 71
Over-generalization 96
Over-identification 59, 60, 62, 63
Overidentified trance 106
________________
Tao of Chaos 43
Trance dream 103, 105, 106, 108
Trance-ending 61, 63
Trance-ference 31, 32, 42, 91
Trances People Live 43
Transactional analysis 2, 74
Transpersonal trance-ference 132
Transpersonal transference 146
Index + 177
U
Uncertainty principle 14
W
Wheeler, John 14
Wonderfulizing 83, 90
Z
Zeig, Jeffery 98
TRANCES PEOPLE LIVE      
Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychology
Stephen Wolinsky, Ph.D .
$16.95 (Paper) 0-9626184-2-X
$24.95 (Cloth) 0-9626184-1-I
270 pages
A.
 t last, the missing piece of the dysfunctional puzzle. It is not enough to understand or even relive our childhood traumas. Dr. Wolinsky shows us how we con-
tinue to recreate those traumas in our adult lives and how
to stop creating them. Every uncomfortable emotional
state, and many psychosomatic symptoms, are also states of
trance. Trance is the "glue" that holds the problem in the
present moment. Learning to identify the kind of trance
state beneath a problem or symptom gives us the tool that
finally dissolves the glue.
This book offers a gold-mine of resources for those who
suffer from dysfunctional patterns of behavior or for anyone
who feels stuck in an undesirable emotional or addictive
state. Learning to step out of the trance states that create
our problems and symptoms is to learn to step into the
present moment at last free of the baggage from our past.
I think that Dr. Stephen Wolinsky's work is a true development of the  
brilliance of Milton Erickson. This is cutting edge work and I recommend
it without qualification.
John Bradshaw
I am deeply struck by your (Dr. Wolinsky's) whole approach, and think it
is of great importance...I must say that I find you (Dr. Wolinsky) one of
the most exciting and original thinkers in this field that I've come across
in a long time.
QUANTUM CONSCIOUSNESS      
A Guide to Experiencing Quantum Psychology
Stephen Wolinsky, Ph.D.
ISBN 0-9626184-8-9, $16.95, 275 Pages
N
ow from the author of Trances People Live: Healing Approaches in Quantum Psychology comes a step-by-step guide to experiencing the underlying unity that is Quantum
Consciousness. Dr. Stephen Wolinsky offers over eighty exer-
cises to explore and experience the quantum approach to
problem resolution. Designed to be done alone, in pairs, or in
a group setting, this adventure takes us into a new frontier and
pushes the envelope of even the most far reaching current
psychological thought.
Quantum Consciousness is a major contribution which could  
reinvigorate the entire field of psychology.
Larry Dossey, M.D.
There are books that inform and there are books that trans-
form. Quantum Consciousness does both--and more.
F. David Peat, Ph.D.
Dr. Stephen Wolinsky has created one of the most interest-
ing and stimulating psychologies since Abraham Maslow.
Colin Willson from the foreword
BRAMBLE •BOOKS
THE TAO OF CHAOS
Essence and the Enneagram
Quantum Consciousness, Volume II
Stephen Wolinsky, Ph .D .
ISBN 1-883647-02-9, $16.95, 359 Pages
n The Tao ofChaos Wolinsky gives us a path to our essential
nature by allowing chaos to be the rule rather than the
exception. A process whereby chaos becomes our friend, a
familiar experience, a welcome home or even a fuel to bring
us back to our universal self. Wolinsky shows us that dysfunc-
tional personality is created as a resistance to chaos. All of our
efforts to order chaos through resisting it by creating more and
more systems to manage it have fallen short. It appears
obvious that a personality born of chaos and resistance to
chaos can only beget more chaos and resistance.
The Tao of Chaos is about looking at our most resisted
experience and finding that chaos is no longer an enemy but
a friend. Exercises throughout the book will ask you to
experience your chaos and by "getting to know" it you will
"get to know" the essence of your real self.
This book is brilliant and it has fantastic and wonderful  
insights. I shall go back to it again and again.
Deepak Chopra, M.D.
author of Quantum Healing, Unconditional Life,
Ageless Body, Timeless Mind
Stephen Wolinsky is rewriting modern psychology. Do your-
self a favor and get in on the first edition.
Larry Dossey, M.D.
author of Healing Words, Meaning & Medicine, Recovering the Soul