We call it hypnotism, but in reality its name is fascination, a very peculiar form of entrancing your subject.

It is wide known?
While hypnosis is well diffused, the peculiar form of fascination is very rare and very few people know it?

Why so few people?
I tried to figure out many reasons:
the persons knowing the techniques didn't want to tell about it
direct gaze hypnosis needs before a personal preparation in order to be rightly practiced

But fascination is what people think hypnosis is in its purest form.
With fascination you put the subject in a passive consciousness, in a dream.

How long does it take?
Fascinatipon could be very fast. You can achieve a very deep hypnotic state in about 3-4 seconds, without even speaking.

Which type of states do you get in 3, 4 seconds?
Many subjects will go in an amnesic state and not remember anything. They will do whatever will be asked.

Do you prepare your subject?
I think you can better take the subject if he doesn't know you are coming. Therefore you must surprise him.
Speak directly, speak in order to create a surprise in him. 

How do you ask the subject to stay?
standing, back of the feet touching themselves

What do you do at the begin?
I widen my gaze. I call this action "taking control of the room". In this way my peripheral view get more open and my whole brain begins working. To be sure I'm widening my gaze I imagine the subject becoming smaller. I do also some specific exercises for this task before even seeing the person.
And after?
I imagine a colour. Everything of this colour. This action will put my right brain also in action as my right brain is very sensible to colours.
And after?
At the same time I breath in. And breathing I feel I'm getting the energy of the person upfront. After I will hold my breathing during the whole exercise. Only at certain moments, when I will feel without air I will very fast breath in.
And what you do also?
I move my hand with the finger pointed doing a circle clockwise in face of the person and for putting the hand away I change the direction of the motion, this will put his third eye chakra in action.
Why you touch his kin?
I touch his kin always to align him and putting him on my energetic line; also this is a very sensible point as for exemple frogs could be put in hypnosis just touching them there
When you touch his kin?
I touch his kin with my right hand when I see he is expiring, so I will begin putting the hypnotic influence from this very moment
What do you do also touching his kin?
He will be obliged to look at me and he will find my gaze looking at him as he will look in front of him. This is the same as the legend of the Basilisk.
do you say him to look at you in a specific point?
Yes, at my third eye. The important in any case is the subject look at you
In which eye do you look at the begin?
in the right one, in order to catch before his solar mind
Do you think something specific?
Yes, in this first part I think the vowel A continously, in order not to have specific thoughts in my mind. The A vowel is also connected with the energy I put here.
Do you look always the right eye?
No after a moment I look at his lunar (moon) eye, the left one.
Do you do it how many times?
Two times.
How is your face at the moment
tense and the teeth will touch themselves
How is your body in this moment?
Tense, and the hand gives energy to the solar plexus that also is tense
Are your arm tense?
Yes
And your legs?
Yes
Is tense similar to rigid?
Not at all, you must be tense but not rigid.
What you must do also
You must be tense in the perineum, in order to give a flash of energy upward that it is what is called "kundalini"
Do you imagine energy going out from you hand?
Not at all, you know it is happening.
What you do with you hands?
I move them in a circular fashion (anticlockwise)
And what you do after?
You must have your thumb distant from the other fingers: this will confound the subject that will not see you coming closer
How do you come closer?
I must have my shoulder tenses and move my head forward. This will press a specific zone in the head (the cerebellum) activating some basic reactions 
And after?
I move my hand on the right. In this way, it happens this: before the thumb was seen from the two eyes and it was as a double thumb: now it becomes a single thumb.
And after?
I have two possibilities: or I look in the two eyes together, or I descend toward the tip of the nose. In this way his introspection will become stronger
What do you do also?
I continue using the I vowel
And what you do also?
I project in his front a circle where my kundalini force enter
How do you project the kundalini force?
Tensing the perineum
And after ?
I move my hand on his side, and at the same time I imagine my fingers stretching behind his head and pulling him
What will that produce?
The subject will slightly come forward
What will you do now?
I will go backwards and the muscles of my face will flatten, while at the same time my kin will go a little forward
And after
I will inspire a little to get some other energy from the subject
And after?
I will go backward, in order to let him without energy, outside his energetic zone.

Do you use silent mantra?
Yes, I pronounce some vowels moving my head from left to right and back
Do you give silent suggestions?
Yes, I always think and create an image of what I want.


How do you give your suggestions?
Directly, asking what I want, or even indirectly asking the subcosnscious to answer me.

 