The Fascination Method of Donato
Franz Anton Mesmer
Toward the end of the 1700 the Austrian Franz Anton Mesmer (1734-1815), discovered the genus of a science which had already been perceived by Maxwell in 1673, by Paracelsus in the sixteenth century, and by Van Helmont in 1630. 
He studied and presented it to the public under the name of animal magnetism. Mesmer claimed that men could exercise over each other a beneficent influence by means of a fluid which is universally distributed and which insinuates itself in the substance of the nerves, and transmits itself by contact or by passes or movements of the hands at a distance.
This fluid was a harmonic fluid, and Mesmer spoke of a balance between the universe and man.
Mesmer used his hands and also the power of the eyes that he steadily fixed on his patients while doing magnetic strokes on the arms and touching the epigastrium in some specific way.
Mesmer had undergone himself also a series of inner exercises in order to increase his power. We don't know the exact sequence, but we know that one of the most notable was trying to stop the interior dialogue. While practicing in Austria, Mesmer hadn't yet worked in this way, but after, when coming into Paris for three months Franz Anton Mesmer tried this kind of exercise and he got even more powerful in his way of magnetizing.
We can think that being Mesmer a researcher, in this period got in contact with some ancient traditions.
Mesmer also adhered in Austria to freemasonry, where he personally knew Mozart, and in Paris adhered to a variety of it that worked on some occult traditions: the Egyptian rite. Students of the true Egyptian rite make specific exercises, which some of them are done with mirrors. The Egyptian rite was after Cagliostro. There are specific techniques using water for predicting future events.
But after that Mesmer left Paris, his followers left aside a lot of the original elements of the complete theory of Mesmer, and concentrated only on pieces of it.
After Mesmer
There were three main groups that aroused.
- The Fluidic approach that reduced the complex mesmeric theory to the idea of a fluid going from the operator to the subject 
- The chevalier de barbarin and the spiritualists that deeply influenced Martinism, and that said that will and faith alone were the cause, as these elements touched superior dimensionalities
- The Puysegurians. This group is originated from a pupil of Mesmer, the Marquis of Puysegur (S. M. G. de Chastenet, marquis de Puysegur 1751-1825), in magnetizing after the process of his master, succeeded in making a critical departure not yet fully developed until then, even if Mesmer himself knew of it, and to which he gave the name of magnetic or artificial somnambulism. This memorable discovery marks the decisive phase in a further evolution of original mesmerism. For the first time it puts the observer in presence of a characteristic and undeniable phenomenon. Up to that time, magnetizers studied above all the means of producing somnambulism or artificial sleep; and as soon as the fact was placed beyond doubt, it was interpreted in different manners and the main attention went on this phenomenon of apparent "sleep".
After the death of Mesmer many other changes underwent to the original doctrine.
The Abbe Faria (1817) departed even more from the original standpoint and pretended that suggestion alone, without the aid of any fluid agent, could put to sleep any person who had faith. It is noteworthy that in any case Faria didn't deny fully magnetism, and he instead affirmed in one of his books that the Baquet of Mesmer could have magnetic effects, even if he affirmed that magnetism was not necessary at all to produce sleep.
This was also the opinion of Henri de Cuillers (1822) who proposed the terms hypnobates and hypnoscopes and who preceded Doctor Braid by eighteen years. In 1841 this latter gentleman, who was a doctor at Manchester, after having followed the magnetic séances of the French magnetizer Lafontaine, also denied all fluidic action. He attempted to explain the production of somnambulism by cerebral exhaustion resulting from long concentration of the eyes on an object offering little surface. He gave to his system the name of hypnotism. The system, applied exactly as described by Braid, corresponded only in a very small part to what in reality the magnetizer of this time did, and Lafontaine himself in his book "l'art de magnetiser" said it, but the word has remained without any plausible reason and has dethroned the more exact term of somnambulism.
In any case Braid brought attention to some physiological facts and acknowledged the main importance of the eye to get an altered state. 
Magnetism in any case, meant a strong departure from the traditional medical paradigm. 
Therefore in most medical societies Animal Magnetism wasn't well accepted and it got strong condemnation pronounced by the scientific societies and particularly by the Academy of Medicine of Paris, which in 1842 had solemnly declared that the whole thing was only a tissue of frauds and impostures. Hardly would at this time a doctor admit the possibility of even inducing sleep.
Some dissenting opinions in any case manifested themselves even between medical men.
Baron du Potet for example, that begun to practice magnetism in the same year in which Mesmer died (1815), staid in France as a strong magnetist and directed an important journal of magnetism, and it is interesting that in 1826 he got a very favorable report from the Academy of Medicine that didn't get the attention it deserved.
In any case in the middle years of 1800 magnetism was on its low.
Only a few experts were left in Europe and without the exhibitions from town to town and from country to country, of a few professors of the art like Du Potet, Lafontaine, and on a less scientific side Regazzoni, Hansen and some others, mesmerism would have slept in the obscurity in which the Academy of Medicine had buried it. 
Without these energetic propagandists, without their example and their lessons, neither Doctor Charcot, Doctor Bernheim, Doctor Braid (inspired by Lafontaine), Doctor Liebeault, nor Doctor Heidenhain (inspired by Hansen), would ever have written their remarkable works; and the question might have remained in oblivion.
This state of things is explained by the secrets surrounding the technique that rendered difficult its diffusion. The real technique was hardly explained in books and kept as a secret.
This brought imperfections of the processes used in the work up to that time as used by most magnetizers. The main used methods were slow, laborious and not efficacious, easily discouraging the efforts of the magnetizers and facilitating the incredulity of their adversaries.

To find somebody that could give a revival to animal magnetism we must wait 1873, where we have Donato (the Belgian-born Alfred d'Hont) initiated in mesmerism by the Canon Mouls de Bordeaux. 
Even if he wasn't principally a healer, Donato reversed in the mind of many the old conceptions existing until this moment and in his short an impetuous life revived in whole Europe the interest in Animal Magnetism more than any other before. Donato was not a vulgar man. First soldier, then state employee, journalist, novelist, poet, and finally student and apostle of animal magnetism; Donato revolutionized hypnotic practice through his rediscovery of "fascination". Even if the eye had been used in the past, the real technique was not so diffused and practiced.  
Donato was blessed with uncommon physical strength, quick and insistent eyes, a great agility of movement, and much spirit.
He had the happiness of soon making some discoveries which in a measure put him in a way of convincing the world not only of the reality of somnambulism, but also and above all of other phenomena much more astonishing.
Most of his predecessors made interminable movements of the hands before their subjects, or else they forced them to fixedly regard the blade of a knife during twenty minutes before obtaining any appreciable result.
We can see instead in an eyewitness account, from L'Italia (1886) how Donato worked:
"Donato looks at the young man quickly, brusquely, and very near ; the operator then turns round the subject continuing to fix and provoke him with his glance ; the latter, as though attracted and fascinated, follows him with wide open
He experiments one by one with about thirty young men. [. . .] Almost all of them respond immediately to his power of fascination by turning stiff throughout their bodies; their faces become contracted, terrified, and sometimes cadaverous; they are at the mercy of the fascinator and follow his movements like a magnet. [. . .] There is something pitiful, spasmodic in their features, something macabre in their gestures. [. . .] Donato has them all in his power, he attracts them in threes, in sixes, ten at a time, simply by rapidly staring into their eyes, even against their firm will and their obstinate efforts to resist his suggestion. [. . .] Donato, in the process, never speaks: he thinks, he wants and points. [. . .]"
For example in 1886 at the war school of Turin, having fascinated about thirty young officers he made them go through their military exercises and take part in imaginary combats. He suggested to one that he was Garibaldi at Aspromonte; to another that he was the commanding general of the school, etc. They assumed the gait, the carriage, the gestures and the voices, and played perfectly the parts of the personages, whom they represented, and with whom of course they were acquainted; for fascination no more than hypnotism can give to anyone knowledge of the unknown.
These, as well as young healthy people that turn stiff despite their efforts to do otherwise—such were the events to be seen on the stage of the Teatro Scribe in Turin in 1886.
Enrico Morselli, one of Italy's leading psychiatrists of the period, assisted and himself succumbed to the fascination of Donato. In his important 1886 study on animal magnetism and hypnotic states, Morselli provided a rather positive portrait of the man.  He had exchanged the magician’s cap for the more sober tuxedo-quite approach.  
Donato “rejects fluids, rejects the power and transmissions of will; nor does he trade in somnambulistic lucidity. He doesn't claim to have special power or gifts.  
Instead he claims that it his quick and insistent 'gaze' that produces a rapid and sudden shock to the nervous system of sensitive individuals. Where there is no "orgasm" he said, his method doesn't work (Morselli 1886, 281).
Morselli claims that these shows come close to producing a political crisis right at the center of Europe.
In effect in Switzerland, the president of the confederation was an opponent of Donato, but was mystified by what Donato did, and his opponent tried to get advantage of it.
But what was so revolutionary about Donato's method? Why were the spectacles at the Teatro Scribe in Turin perceived to be so radically new?
One of the methods Donato used to produce fascination was the following manner: He would cause the subject to lean on his hands, thus fatiguing the muscles. The excitement produced by the concentrated gaze also assisted in weakening the nervous resistance. At last the operator would suddenly call out: “Look at me!” The subject would look up and gaze steadily into the operator’s eyes, who would stare steadily back with round, glaring eyes, and subdue him.
When working with the hypnotic subject, Morselli tells us, he make him act “like a dramatic artist who intends to represent different parts in a comedy or tragedy". Hypnosis produces “dramas, comedies and farces, without number and without end, that can multiply according to the pleasurable fantasy of the one conducting the experiment and of those undergoing it3 plays whose termination must always feel like a curtain falling on a scene that "chills the dramatic sympathy of o spectator". And here Donato operates on healthy individuals whom he doesn't know. As Morselli tells us:
'Donatism" is a complex phenomenon and a little different from classical hypnotism and Braidism, which, for the most part, bring about unconsciousness, amnesia,

Says Dr. Moll: "As I saw in Paris, Donato uses a particular process to bring about the state of fascination. This process aims at a primary forced contracture of all the muscles of the body, in order, by this means, to limit the voluntary movements as much as possible. In this case the eyes of the hypnotist and the subject are firmly fixed on one another. The subject finally follows every movement of the experimenter. If he goes backward, the subject follows; if he comes forward, the subject does the same. In the same way the latter imitates every movement of the experimenter, only on the condition, however, that he knows he is intended to do so. We see here, as in the above third experiment, that fascination may be a primary form of hypnosis. But it can also be originated secondarily out of the other hypnotic states; and this is more usual. When the experimenter has hypnotized the subject in some other way, and has made him open his eyes, he can fix his own steadily on them, and thus induce the same phenomena. A variety of this fascination is to fix the eyes of the subject on some other object—for example, on the finger of the experimenter. In this case the fascinated person follows every movement made by the finger.
Let’s see now
THE MEETINGS OF DONATO
The first thing Donato after greeting the public by entering the stage is to examine the composition of the room. 
Whilst acknowledging the radiant intelligence on the forehead or in the eyes of many, he is quiet, as he is sure to be appreciated, and then his voice takes the softest tones, he is insinuating with dignity. His gaze is always tan, but do not throw vivid light. His words caress.  If instead the first glance tells him that he will be dealing with people having no other ideal than their bellies or their material appetites, and came half tipsy with preconceived ideas of malice, with look of skepticism affected, he arms himself quickly to the fight.
A time, to a crowd that whistled him he would answer the challenge:
- I am afraid of nothing and I fear no one.
Five minutes later, this same crowd cheered in delight.
He always stood up to the most violent storms, and he always triumphed over the circumstances most unfavorable to his empire, the most rebellious elements to its success.
A Le Locle, by means of energy and eloquence sudden, he subjugated men who, forced by this unfortunate political passion from any blurring, joining in all, wanted him to do some damage.
In the Sessions of the Salle Herz, where Donato has experiences the most varied and most successful on the spectators who came to be magnetized by him, resulted in more than one incident, as can well imagine.
as he fears the Talleyrand feared his clumsy friends.
 We will give examples of which we guarantee the authenticity and all the events have gone before us. This is the best way to describe the composition of the room.
A young man, calling himself a student of the famous Dr. Charcot, just ask him and find Donato to attend the meeting. His request was greeted with great graciousness and immediately, though, since the success asserting daily obtains the great hypnotist, students of Dr. Charcot become as numerous as the stars of the theater, the directors say their writing advertisements. 
The medical student crushes Miss Lucile questions about his health. He insists that she is sick. The girl thought her answer:
- But you just look at me to convince you otherwise.
The student continues to repeat:
- It is impossible; our teacher makes us do that experiment just on patients, on sick people.
- These muscles, the flesh is good to me, took the girl, showing her beautiful arm.
Nothing helps. Lucile herself cannot help but whisper, with his Parisian accent:
- He is ill.
After a while the student convinces himself, and at every phenomenon produced by the magnetizer, the overzealous loudly testifies his admiration.
People begins to whisper about him
 - It's a stooge.
Where this becomes too enthusiastic and troublesome is when a round of spectators coming for magnetizing arrived.
Seeing Donato be followed by a young student, he drop to his knees
 Donato, with a laugh the first, approaching it too light and said with calm, full of gentle irony:
- You took a lot of hysteria, Attention, it is a contagious disease
It's a little element and it delights them. His composure, his lines often bloody polished but are still outstanding. This tit for tat, and attacking.
The fascination used for the first time by Donato has after been described by Doctor Bremaud. 
Says a French writer: “Dr. Bremaud, a naval doctor, has obtained in men supposed to be perfectly healthy a condition, which he calls fascination.  The subject fascinated by Dr. Bremaud–fascination being induced by the contemplation of a bright spot–falls into a state of stupor. He follows the operator and servilely imitates his movements, gestures and words; he obeys suggestions, and a stimulation of the nerves induces contraction, but the cataleptic pliability does not exist.”
The History of Donato
Donato’s work is of a foremost importance in the history of hypnotism and animal Magnetism. In 1873, when Donato was initiated in mesmerism by the Canon Mouls de Bordeaux, the question had for a long time been abandoned on account of the condemnation pronounced by the scientific societies and particularly by the Academy of Medicine of Paris, which in 1842 had solemnly declared that the whole thing was only a tissue of frauds and impostures. Hardly would a doctor admit the possibility of even inducing sleep.
This state of things is explained by the imperfections of the processes used in the work up to that time. They were slow, laborious and not efficacious, easily discouraging the efforts of the magnetizers and facilitating the incredulity of their adversaries.
In the same year Donato had the happiness of soon making a discovery which in a measure put him in the way of convincing the world not only of the reality of somnambulism, but also and above all of other phenomena much more astonishing.
Donato was quick, ardent, and impetuous to excess. It is to these natural defects that he owes his discovery. Under the dominion of a feverish impatience he made his first experiments. As he said:
“Minutes seemed to me centuries. My will to end quickly, energetically expressed by my gesture and my glance, impressed the subject, who went to sleep with an astonishing rapidity. Excited by success I tried to provoke sleep more and more rapidly, in three minutes, in two minutes, finally in one single minute, and my success was complete.
One evening in Liege (Belgium) in 1874, finding myself in a cafe, he overheard a young lawyer—M. Cudell—who denied my power and attempted to turn me into ridicule. Indignant and furious I placed myself before him and without braggadocio but with a profound conviction I announced to him that with a single glance I would make him fall backward. My audacity paralyzed his mind and succumbing to the power of my will he immediately rolled to the earth.
Another time I attended Madame Michele (also at Liege, which is my native town), who had a stroke of paralysis. Her companion expressed doubts as to the efficacy of my curative power. Finally, somewhat irritated, I said: "Mademoiselle Lronie, to prove to you my power I will paralyze your legs by a gesture. You can walk no more." In effect, Leonie, seized with fright, begged of me to give her back the use of her limbs.
These facts and others of like nature which I will not mention, proved to me that the surest way to affect the imagination of a person, impose upon him a stronger will, consisted in working with the rapidity of lightning without giving him the time to reflect or recover his sang-froid.
The reader knows those time-worn expressions: mute with astonishment, paralyzed with fear, dead with fright, petrified with admiration. They come to the support of my system. It is by surprising my subjects that I obtain paralysis, aphony, etc. without even trying to send them to sleep previously.
My theory being definitely acknowledged as exact, it remained to me to invent the most efficacious process to obtain the most serious and practical results, for everybody is more or less apt to submit to the influence, though the measure is very variable, and the final success depends on the ability of the operator nearly as much as on the idiosyncrasy of the patient.
After long studies I adopted several processes, which I use alternatively according to circumstances. 
FIRST PROCESS
The principal consists in making the patient press his hands strongly on mine. Suddenly I push him backward and I quickly plunge my glance into his eyes. Surprised, he recoils, and immediately the expression of his eyes indicates to me his degree of impressionability.
"The fascination used for the first time by Donato has already been described by Doctor Bremaud. Donato, who operates specially on young people, proceeds as follows: He asks the subject to apply the palms of his hands on his own, which are stretched horizon tally, and to press downward with all his strength. The attention and all the physical strength of the subject are absorbed in this manoeuvre, while his concentrated innervation toward the muscular effort prevents his thoughts from being distracted. Donato looks at quickly, brusquely and very near; the operator then turns round the subject, continuing to fix and provoke him with his glance; the latter, as though attracted and fascinated, follows him with wide open eyes which can no more be detached from his own. It is a matter of suggestion by gesture. The subject understands by the fixity of the magnetizer's eyes on his, that his eyes must remain attached to the maguetizer's and follow them everywhere. He thinks himself attracted toward him; it is a psychical suggestive fascination and in no way physical."
The eminent Doctor Bernheim could have added to be complete that the art of hypnotism consists in striking the imagination of the subject in such a manner as to convince him that he attracts him the young man as the magnet attracts the iron; when in reality the man possesses no magnetic physical virtue, but on the other hand certain men are gifted with a prodigious moral magnetism and exercise an irresistible ascendency over all the persons who surround them.
Here is a second process of my invention.
I ask the patients to kneel before me and to look steadily into my eyes. Standing before them I place my hand on their foreheads and incline their heads slightly backward. As soon as they try to straighten them I direct into their pupils an imperative glance which paralyzes them if they are sensitive to my influence. From the moment that a patient has given proof of submission by following my eyes in my first process, as in remaining nailed to the ground in my second, I can almost always make him go through the successive phases which I will mention succinctly, without entering into details of intermediate periods, of which the description would be too long.
1. With a word, a look, a significant gesture I make him walk and move backward in spite of himself. I arrest his arm if he wishes to strike, his hand if he wishes to write, and his legs if he wishes to walk. I render him numb or mute, etc. I obtain these results by provoking different forms of paralysis. The subject is in no way asleep; he possesses full consciousness of his acts and, brought back to the normal state by a word or a breath, he can relate the different experiments he has submitted to.
2. By degrees in the course of the experiments the power of a fixed idea takes complete possession of a subject; his psychic individuality is effaced, and he ends by being absorbed in me. At first he saw, heard and felt only me; now he feels, thinks, desires and acts only in conformity to my caprice. I can force upon him the falsest ideas, the most illusory sensations, the most unnatural desires, the strangest acts. He accepts them and obeys without resistance. He has abdicated his will without regret, under the charm of a seductive fascination. This is the unconscious phase; it presents none of the characteristics of either physiological or pathological sleep. I will speak further on of suggestion in its expiration.
When the subjects are quite docile the most marvelous results are obtained at once. Thus in presence of the photographic apparatus I have attracted a number of subjects by a glance; then gesture I have rendered them as immobile as wax figures in a museum.
In another photograph is represented a subject seated in an armchair. Laughing slightly, I looked at him. He commenced to laugh by imitation, and then his risibility was progressively accentuated, until he was in an ecstasy of hilarity at the moment in which he was photographed. I could as easily make him sing, cough, sneeze, make faces, etc. A little later I chose to suggest to this subject that a tiger pounced upon him. He immediately made a touching gesture of unspeakable terror.
In Paris in 1881 Mounet-Sully the greatest French tragedian, having assisted in my séance, wrote me a long letter in which he said: "If your experiments are not real, your subjects are comedians of genius worthy of being engaged at the Comédie Francaise ; for neither the great Talma nor the prodigious Frederic Lemaitre could equal them."
Jules Claretie director of the Comedie Francaise, made a similar declaration in Le Temps; and Sara Bernhardt confessed herself incapable of assuming the attitudes and ecstatic expressions which I suggested to four lady friends of hers at a stance improvised by the celebrated painter Louise Abbema.
A young subject wishing to lift a newspaper is made to believe that the paper weighs fifty pounds, and he exhausts himself in his effort. The imaginary weight drags him down and would make him fall did I not restore the lost equilibrium by pressing my hand on the opposite shoulder.
At Bordeaux in 1887 in presence of all the press, I prevented Lawyer X (whose name I have forgotten), the most robust man in the city, from lifting a handkerchief.
Another impromptu scene represents subjects shivering with cold; they pull up their coat collars, put their hands in their pockets and stamp their feet; one places his handkerchief about his neck.
These scenes were totally unknown fifteen years ago when I commenced my demonstrative lectures in public halls. I improvised them all under the eyes of the spectators as circumstances suggested them to my mind. For example in 1886 at the war school of Turin, having fascinated about thirty young officers (from about 100 who submitted themselves) I made them go through their military exercises and take part in imaginary combats. I suggested to one that he was Garibaldi at Aspromonte; to another that he was the commanding general of the school, etc. They assumed the gait, the carriage, the gestures and the voices, and played perfectly the parts of the personages, whom they represented, and with whom of course they were acquainted; for fascination no more than hypnotism can give to anyone knowledge of the unknown.
From the beginning of the study I blamed the exaggerations of a few savants. Doctor Lombroso (the celebrated insanity expert, himself insane) affirms to have seen a hypnotized woman read through her tees without the aid of her eyes; to have made a medical student write music, of which he knew not a note; and another student speak German correctly, a language of which he was entirely ignorant. As the two students mentioned were patients formed by myself, I made inquiries of them and they informed me that they knew perfectly both music and the German language, and that, besides, Doctor Lombroso went through his experiments without method, without sincerity and with a brutality of which the subjects suffered and complained.
The newspapers have for a long time resounded with accounts of the famous experiments of Doctor Luys, member of the Academy of Medicine, on the influence of medicaments enclosed in glass tubes and acting at a distance on two hypnotized women at the hospital of La Charity. I denied these facts energetically. They were submitted to an academic commission who declared them false in every particular. Doctor Luys had been duped by his two patients, who had tried to render themselves interesting.
At the request of the queen of Belgium I gave a stance at the Theatre d'Ostende on the nth of August 1887 at which all the court assisted. I had asked the commander of the marine school to bring me about twenty cabin boys with whom I might experiment, to put aside all suspicion of trickery. That night I invented complicated scenes of fishing, swimming, navigation and shipwreck. When I fascinated lawyers, as in Milan, Gaud and Douai, I made them deliver political speeches, or I composed a tribunal with judges, public accusers, defendants, etc. In Yassy (Romania) the judge was easily found, since I fascinated the president of the tribunal in the presence of Queen Natalie of Servia. Experiments have also been suggested to me by antithesis. It was thus that in 1882 in Paris it occurred to me to make Prince Louis Murat wait upon me, having transformed him into a man servant by the force of my will. And again I obliged Count Maurice Fleury, son of General Fleury, a gentle young man, reserved and timid, to dance a wild can-can before his astonished friends.
To the subjects, who had just been giving every evidence of suffering from cold, I suggested that they were suffering from an excess of tropical heat. They mopped their foreheads and removed their coats. A respect for truth incites me to say here that in this experiment the subjects are not always really warm; however in all cases the phenomena are subjective and not objective.
Boxing is an act of simple suggestion. The dentist scene is more complicated. A subject suffers with toothache (suggested sensation). He goes to the dentist, sits in the chair and opens his mouth (suggested action). A second subject believes to be a dentist himself (suggested idea) and goes through the motion of extracting the bad tooth.
The other photographs represent different phases of suggested crime. It must be confessed it is only simulated, for the alleged dagger is a roll of newspaper. This gives rise to a formidable question. Would it be possible to bring about a veritable crime in real life, instead of an imaginary crime in a theatre or hospital? I do not hesitate to reply no, a thousand times no! Hypnotism, all powerful for good, is disarmed for evil. As fascination and magnetic somnambulance, it takes its source in trust and cannot exist without voluntary abandon. No one can be fascinated or hypnotized against his will. It is indispensable that the patient should lend himself decidedly to the experiments; otherwise they fail. A man of healthy mind and body can always of his own free will act so as to favor or facilitate or to react against and prevent the influence of a magnetizer.
Dr. Braid affirms with reason (Neurhvpnology, page 18) that the hypnotic state can be determined in none of its periods without the consent of the person operated upon. Dr. Bernheim also affirms that no one can be hypnotized against his will if he resists the injunction, and, he adds, sleep depends on the subject—it is his own faith which causes sleep. These two authors who are authorities in this matter render it unnecessary to cite others. The conclusion of this is easily drawn: No one will ever consent to being hypnotized without witnesses, by a suspicious individual in circumstances favorable to the perpetration of a crime. Supposing however that owing to circumstances impossible to foresee, a malefactor should win the confidence of a person whom he would use as the unconscious instrument of a crime; once fascinated, would that person obey the criminal suggestion? No, answers the illustrious Doctor Bruardel of Paris; if an individual pleasing to the somnambulist offers him agreeable or indifferent suggestions, he submits; but if the suggestion is revolting to his personal affections or his natural instincts, he opposes an invincible resistance. This is also the opinion of Doctor Charcot, who regrets that ignorant people should throw discredit on a science still in embryo and as innocent as youth itself.
From a speech made in the Academy of Medicine on the 30th of December 1S8S, I take the following lines: "The apprehensions in regard to the dangers of hypnotism carried out as an instrument of crime are much exaggerated. If we refer to the minute inquiries made on the question, the dangers which hypnotism brings to bear on society are more theoretical than real. Besides criminals have believed until now, and they are right, that it is more prudent for them to operate directly and without intermediaries." Space wants to multiply citations to the proof of my theory.
What has most disturbed the timid fearful and rebellious to all innovation is that it is possible to produce suggestion by date: that is to say, to command a subject to commit an act in the future at a given day and hour. Like the alarm of a clock which rings at a certain hour, the subject falls into a trance and executes the mandate at the moment indicated. But I repeat the most sensitive is refractory to acts that are repugnant to him. The fascinated subject feels vaguely that he is the sport of illusions, plunged in a sort of intoxication. He enjoys it as long as it flatters his taste or his inclinations, but he refrains with all his energy as soon as he feels in peril. As an intoxicated man will become sober under the influence of a strong emotion, the subject exposed to danger endeavors to regain his liberty, awakening then as from a nightmare.
Like somnambulism, fascination is called upon to render striking services. The science being still in its cradle it is not possible to foresee at the present time what will be its destiny. The anesthesia provoked by fascination offers a process far preferable to chloroform for surgical operations. Suggested lethargic sleep repairs the strength of patients. From a philosophical standpoint mesmerism has upset the old psychology and opens before us unknown regions. Assuredly a good many false ideas are mixed up with profitable truths in the melee of too hasty words which abound in hypnotism.
I believe there is more chaff than wheat. But the exact sciences have always been engendered from a study of the most absurd theories. Chemistry is the daughter of alchemy which itself originated from the art of Hermes. Astronomy comes from astrology, born of astrolatry. Magic gave birth to physics.
A great discovery in the so little explored domain of mesmerism has perhaps in store for us the supreme manifestation of the scientific spirit of the twentieth century.
As Victor Hugo wrote in a sublime verse,
"The real is narrow, the possible immense."
Let us work then without flinching, to remove the limits of the real and to reach the limits of the possible.
 
The sticking of a pin into one of the subjects who had been brought down into the audience, by a person present and somewhat cruelly inclined, a blow in the face of eyes open to the light but unconscious, and other experiments were sufficiently convincing that however long the of the medical profession as a most fascinating subject. To the humdrum plodder the idea that one human being by merely looking intently or raising his finger or suggesting an idea, may entirely and completely upset the mental equilibrium of a fellow being and cause him to follow his behests as would a trained spaniel, seems outrageous.. It may be worth while saying that in the minds of more than a dozen persons invited to witness these experiments, including some men of science, there was not the slightest doubt entertained by anyone as to the genuineness of the hypnotizing of the subjects. This hypnotism meant loss of consciousness.

Physiology of fascination

Goal of fascination is to bring the subject in a passive consciousness. For doing it we act on the eye as a primary tool.
When engaged in our thinking and evaluating what is perceived, that is the functioning of mind... the arising of the make-believe world of labels and opinions.  That is an unnecessary activity added to the basic condition of just being...just observing.

Fascination gets these results using many elements connected to eyes accommodation.

Accommodation
Accommodation to natural vistas depends in a complicated way on:
The dark focus of the individual,
The retinal locus
The spatial frequency of visible texture,
The sharpness of focus needed for the discrimination of object identity, for example, reading a sign.

In fascination we observe:
- Dark Focus position will be influenced by several conditions, and become nearer the more the individual is excited
- Retinal Locus is better on the left on the individual, as vision is different from left to right
- When sharpness of focus is increased results are faster 


ALTERATION IN SENSORY PERCEPTIONS - THE "BIG FACE"
The apparent size of an object changes with shifts in the distance to which the eye is accommodated. This phenomenon happens in fascination, where the face of the operator become big and can even be a sign of entering a specific state as it is physiological as well psychological as it touches what we call "dimension" of an object, that is also a psychological construction. For example, a six floors building occupies on the retina the same space as an object near, yet we are able to judge its size, even with an eye closed. There is also a physiological correlate: the more distant the individual’s dark focus, the greater his or her tendency to focus beyond an acuity target and to maximize apparent size. This will create a greater discrimination of detail. In fact judgments of apparent size are highly correlated with visual accommodation distance, and in aviation it has been proved that the difficulty of detecting airplanes on stationary collision courses is greatly aggravated when focus is trapped by structure close to the eyes.

While alteration in sensory perceptions has something in common with the jargon of Ericksonian hypnosis there is also a list of phenomena that don't pertain to Ericksonian hypnosis

ENTERING THE SPACE OF "NOTHING": THE MANDELBAUM EFFECT
Accommodation is the physiological process by which the eye brings objects at different distances into focus.
The Mandelbaum effect refers to an inadvertent accommodation response to an intervening surface (e.g. the hand) while attempting to focus a distant object of interest (the operator). It was first scientifically codified by Mandelbaum in 1960 in relation to something observed during pilot flights.
The use of the hand in fascination can be explained with factors related to the Mandelbaum effect, i.e. the tendency of the eye to approach "resting" accommodation.
The resting point of accommodation is also called the "dark focus" as it is the distance where the eyes accommodate as they look in the dark. We note that there are disciplines, as the "dzogchen", that teach "sky gazing". Sky gazing will result in the eyes accommodating to the space of nothing and in this space we can experience non duality.
Also when visibility is poor, the eye tends to relax and focus on its best distance, technically known as "empty field" or "dark focus". This distance is usually just under one meter (one yard), but varies considerably among people. The tendency is aggravated by objects close to the eye, drawing focus closer.
Since resting accommodation is approximately one meter objects the operator, in the case he will move himself farther he will be also out of focus. 
We should note that the Mandelbaum Effect is not refractive error in the usual sense. It is instead something happening inside the brain: it is not a structural characteristic of the eyes, but the Effect arises from normal variations of perception in the brain. When there is spatial disorientation, it is posited some people are severely affected by the effect, some mildly, and some not at all.
Curiosity: The effect is well known in aviation where dirty glass can aggravate the effect, potentially causing a pilot or driver to miss seeing an obstacle or hazard, and therefore it is a strong safety argument for keeping windows clean.

SPEAKING FROM OUTSIDE THE SUBJECT'S MICROCOSM - Movement and increasing of the Mandelbaum Effect
The eye is lazy and resists the pull of a distant stimulus, preferring to rest at a relatively short focal distance as it does in the dark or when looking at the sky. As the operator will move farther he will move outside this point and his voice will seem to arrive from a different location

ENTERING THE SUBJECT MICROCOSM
This is done with a fast moving toward the subject. Directing the two eyes on a point demands an extreme convergence of the ocular axes and a strenuous accommodation. The proximity of the point being to great, the accommodation, though contracted, is insufficient, in general to allow a clear vision. As for the surroundings objects their images form only the peripheral part of the retina, since the central part is focused. The peripherical sensations on the retina are weaker than the sensations at the centre. In these conditions the subject makes himself almost blind to the external world and the more we are near, the more the process is accentuated.

FIXATION OF ATTENTION and Blurring
As we walk, drive a car, or fly low over the terrain, our accommodation is determined largely by Gibson's (1950) well-known "texture gradient." The retin-A unconsciously performs some kind of a product-moment averaging routine on the textural elements t o reduce the blur, and the fact that much of the scene necessarily remains blurred normally goes unnoticed so long as the acuity demand remains low. But as we point in a specific direction blurring appears in the peripheral field

CIRCULATION AND EXPANSION IN THE UNIVERSE Peripheral Circular Movements
Circular movements seem to have a specific exciting effect on the eyes. They can prepare the real fascination work. It is to observe that the sense of rotation matters and as we do a circular movement we tend to excite our mind in a specific way 

EXCITING THE UNCONSCIOUS
Central and Peripheral Vision
If you divide our brain into the conscious and subconscious, you could say that cone (central) vision is processed consciously, whereas rod (peripheral) vision is processed subconsciously.  At most times, your subconscious mind functions in the background, sifting through huge streams of information for your conscious mind to consider. There are two components of the visual system, focal (fovea) vision and ambient (peripheral) vision. Focal vision is primarily responsible for object recognition, and ambient vision is primarily responsible for spatial orientation. Peripheral vision is good at detecting motion (a feature of rod cells) so movement we do will be recognized and help in fascinating
Focal Vision. Focal vision is limited to the central two degrees of vision (i.e., the fovea) and is primarily a conscious function. Focal vision allows one to see clearly in order to recognize objects and read displays. However, since it requires conscious thought, it is a relatively slow process. Focal vision is not primarily involved with orienting oneself in the environment, but can be used to acquire visual information about orientation. 
  Ambient Vision. Ambient vision is often referred to as peripheral vision. It is a subconscious function independent of focal vision whose primary role is to orient an individual in the environment.
For example, one can fully occupy focal vision by reading (a conscious action), while simultaneously obtaining sufficient orientation cues with peripheral vision to walk (a subconscious function). The same can happen when flying an aircraft and performing a task such as interpreting radar contact information on a HUD. Focal vision is used to consciously decipher task-oriented information while peripheral information is subconsciously used to maintain spatial orientation."

GOING BEYOND THREE DIMENSIONAL REALITY 
Altering binocular function
Binocular functions refer to the ability of the eyes to coordinate their activity so that we can merge the visual fields of both eyes into one distinct image. The most commonly observed aspects of binocular functions include convergence (the ability of the two eyes to team and focus on the same object), and accommodations (the ability of the eyes to shift their focus from near point to far point or vice versa). Each eye can have normal acuity (20/20 vision) but unless the eyes team, visual functions are impaired; <in observing very fast one eye after the other it seems that we alter binocular functions.

AWAKENING LEFT SIDE OF VISION - WORKING ON THE LEFT EYE

HANDS AS VISUAL CUE TO INCREASE ATTENTION

USING PERIPHERAL MOVEMENTS TO AFFECT THE PERCEPTION OF BODY POSITION
Moving the hand in the peripheral field of vision can result in affecting the sense of balance.
Different visual areas contribute to the processing of visual information coming from different parts of the visual field, and a complex of visual areas located along the banks of the inter hemispheric fissure (a deep groove that separates the two brain hemispheres) has been linked to peripheral vision. It has been suggested that these areas are important for fast reactions to visual stimuli in the periphery, and monitoring body position relative to gravity (Palmer SM, Rosa MG (2006). "A distinct anatomical network of cortical areas for analysis of motion in far peripheral vision". Eur J Neurosci 24 (8): 2389–405. doi:10.1111/j.1460-9568.2006.05113.x. PMID 17042793)

PERIPHERAL MOVEMENT

ABSORBING
This refer to absorbing the spirit of the person in front of us

Diploplia
Though physiological diploplia is seldom noticed in everyday life, it is readily perceived when attention is drawn to it. For example, if a pencil is held vertically a short distance in front of the eyes while a more distant object is steadily fixated, the pencil will be seen in crossed diploplia. Hence the rule: uncrossed diploplia occurs when the object is farther than fixation, crossed diploplia when it is nearer than fixation

In general, the diplopic images are out of focus and insubstantial. Any impression of their distance from the eyes would be greatly influenced by prior knowledge of the actual positions of objects in question, especially if the nearer one is held in hand. This means that by movement, once a first diploplia has been obtained through dark focus concentration, we can render our position uncertain.
