Seven Powerful Types of Hypnotic Gaze

The eyes are natural instruments of power and influence. Hypnotic gaze is an important asset for anyone wanting to practice hypnosis (direct gaze induction), magnetism or wanting to learn true mesmerism. Learning this secret art will also transform your everyday life. Eye contact makes persuasion more effective and immediate.
 
Even mainstream current psychology affirms the importance of gaze. Little babies seek the gaze of their mothers. Also all experimental studies agree on the fact that our mind has very different reactions whether looking at an inanimate object or at a person.
 
The importance of the eye is known from the times of Egyptians or of the Greeks. These ancient peoples studied it in depth, attributing magical powers to it, putting it on shields. The Greeks depicted it on their ships and also in many other artefacts.
 
However many methods of practically using the eye were never fully disclosed in print. Here we will share some secrets that can enhance this subtle power, which is inborn to each human being.
 
Contrary to a diffused opinion, there is not one type only of hypnotic gaze. A true practitioner of fascination (this is the name of the art of using the gaze) will use a big variety of different types of gaze, instead. Each one being useful for a different goal or link. He will also link them together in particular sequences for creating different sensations of for specific power results, such as healing, hypnotizing, suggesting change. This article is a guide of some simple types of this gaze we could use to enhance subconscious responses. In learning them you will begin to move the first steps, you will enter the realm of fascination and foster your power to charm just with the sense of sight.
 
Donato, one 1800s Belgian hypnotist, stupefied the whole Europe with his ability to use his powerful hypnotic gaze to induce the deepest trance in less than 5 seconds in everybody wishing to, and also in many of his opponents, who, after having defied him, became his most ardent supporters. He didn't speak to induce these trances. He just used his eyes. Most modern hypnotists don't know anymore how to unleash the power of the gaze. They use mild "direct gaze inductions" and don't know the real technique. But somebody knowing the techique exists still today.
 
We had the chance to assist to the tremendous power of the hypnotic gaze of Virgilio Torrizzano, an otherwise quiet man living in the countryside. For example, just looking at somebody never hypnotized before, in a few seconds this subject was made completely "frozen" (about 2 seconds). After that he answered to some suggestions that were expressed even non-verbally. The response was overwhelming and then the subject could remember nothing of that. His trance was deeper as any trance achievable through verbal methods. We became friends of Virgilio and we (Dr. Tira and myself writing, Dr. Paret) were personally initiated in this school of fascination. Some of the types of gaze that you will read of here are the same practiced by him and by Prof. Erminio di Pisa, too. The latter one was a specialist in hypnotic gaze for healing. Often his patients were what are called "chronic" patients, aged more than 60. In a few seconds he was able to solve many of their problems (neuromuscular problems, tinnitus etc...). Most of the times, the results were long lasting after only three sessions of a few seconds. The most amazing thing was that a certain percentage was healed completely at the first session, after less of a minute of therapy.
 These are our masters in teaching us these centuries' old techniques that they were still practising.
 
Some of these visual patterns had never been diffused up to now. To begin this travel in the realm of the eye, the first point to develop in your daily practice is your ability of staring. Being able to stare without feeling the need to blink is a powerful and basic asset for exerting all other variants of gaze exposed hereunder. Why do we need to exercise staring without blinking? There are many interpersonal as well personal reasons behind it. This behaviour has been confirmed to be very useful even by modern researches. For example researcher Argyle pointed out that people feeling themselves inferior blink more often than people feeling themselves superior. The blinking patterns are also connected to the fact that our brain is performing subconscious processing. As we blink we are changing "mental image". So the more nervous a person is, the more often he/she will blink. If we are able not to blink we will transmit the idea to be sure and firm. There is also an internal reason. This practice is useful to make the mind still and clear. Raja Yoga in India and corresponding western traditional disciplines have always stressed the importance of being able to create one-pointedness in our mind. As body and mind are connected, one-pointedness in this way is not only mental, but also physical through the sense of sight.
 
This training involves therefore exercising our attention, otherwise dispersed, and our concentration. To learn how to do it well, you need to begin exercising on looking at a point without closing your eyelids and with the least internal chattering. At the beginning your eyes will begin to tear after a few seconds. Do not despair. Just close them, wait some seconds, and afterwards try again. Continue practicing. A good way is to have 15 minutes each day to do it. These exercises must be undergone seriously for optimal results, as a promise you are making to yourself. On our site of magnetism there is a free course available on this kind of training writing at mesmerismus_eng@getresponse.com . You will find further ideas on staring. Staring is not just physical. On a more subtle level, staring is a way to open a channel to transmit your energy. This energy is what is called "lifeforce". It is what the indians calls "the kundalini-power" and the greeks "the power of the hermetic caducy". Even if everybody already possesses a part of this energy and you can get good results from the begin, proper practice is useful to release more and reach the results of Virgilio or Donato.
 
- Developing our central gaze: going beyond the centre of personality 

As your eyes become stronger, the next step is practising what is called "the central gaze". This is the most known of all hypnotic gazes. You look steadily at the centre of eyebrows, at what the Indians call the Ajna Chakra. Your partner will not understand in which eye you are looking at, and at the same time he/she feels the gaze as a sort of power exerted towards him. This gaze has a powerful impact and it will transmit the idea of force and strength. This kind of staring is also the basis for many energetic transmissions and esoteric initiations. Always practice the central gaze before beginning a hypnotic session or in the most important point of your speeches.
 
- Looking at the glands and beginning to dissociate from everyday reality - A mysterious gaze technique:
 
A further refinement of the preceding gaze is looking at the glands of each eye. You could use this method in alternance and in combination with the central gaze. A central gaze alone could be felt too strong and direct by some people. If you look at the glands of each eye, alternating the gaze from one to the other one, your partner will not be able to look back to you from the same point. This behaviour can be useful to create a strange feeling at the beginning of an interaction. The subject will also begin to dissociate unconsciously from everyday reality and enter in a trance without noticing it.
 
- Differences in looking more at the left or at the right eye, to excite different parts of the mind
 After some weeks, your gaze will become stronger and stronger. You will be able to look also in the eyes of your partners directly without feeling your eyes tired. At this point you will discover the profound difference in looking at the right eye and at the left eye. Each eye has different connections in our brain. For the ancient Egyptians the right eye was connected to the sun. In many traditions it is considered more male. The left eye, instead, was connected to the moon. If you want to enhance the passivity of your subject look at the left one. This can be a way of beginning more effectively a hypnotic induction.
 
To improve your sensibility to right or left gaze please also notice the patterns that you normally use in looking at other people and try to become more master of them. A useful exercise could be to look at your acquaintances in the same eye during one day and in the other eye the other day. You will soon understand many unconscious patterns of your behaviour. Sometimes we have a "preferential eye" for some arguments or some persons. If you are with a friend and want him to change opinion, try switching the eye in which you are looking at him.
 
- Adding movement and vivacity to your eyes. The alternate gaze to cause hemispherical response and confusion.
 
Alternating gaze between eyes is the next technique and speaks to both brain hemispheres… As we said, looking at the left eye enhances passivity in the person being looked at. We can increase this state looking firstly at the right eye for some seconds, and going to the left one and staying there afterwards. This method is stronger as looking always at the left eye. In starting a little on the right eye we will "saturate" it, and the effect we will create as we look at the left one will be stronger.
 
As we proceed in our practice we can discover also another hypnotic gaze very useful in hypnosis. It will break away the pattern in which our subject understands and processes reality. Simply we will alternate very fast our gaze between right eye and left eye. And also here we can find a scientific explanation giving even more ground to this ancient method.
 
We live in our map of the world. This map is based on our three-dimensional view of the world. 3-d view in turn is based on the interaction between the left eye and the right eye. We construct our daily three-dimensional reality through interaction between hemispheres. When we change it we also change the way in which our rational mind acts. Alternating gaze is useful for "splitting" the coordination between right and left, thus exciting each hemisphere in a different way. The person will feel more in the now. Our master Prof. Erminio Di Pisa, for example, used this kind of gaze a lot at the beginning to "break" the subconscious resistances before using a penetrating gaze and make the subject even looser...
 
- Looking at the nose and suggesting a trance 

Looking at the nose will cause a strange feeling in your partner and could suggest the idea of looking within himself entering a trance. The tip of one's own nose is a concentration point used also in Yoga practises. The difference here is that we look at another person. We teach two basic different ways to look at the nose during a hypnotic induction.
 
The first one consists in looking alternating at the point between the eyebrows and at the tip of the nose. This will cause the eyes to change slightly accommodation, and accordingly the width of their pupils. Reading further on you will understand why width of pupils is crucial.
 
Another way of doing is alternating between looking at the right eye, at the left eye, and finally the nose. This kind of gaze will cause a sort of "confusion" in your subject. The confusion will normally happen in the same moment you will look at the nose.
 
Try these methods at the beginning of your hypnotic inductions. 

- How to add depth of gaze and speak to the primal mind 

This advanced kind of hypnotic gaze gives the impression you are looking very deep inside your partner, and a variation of it is also used for some types of mysterious "hypnotic robberies" as I have demonstrated recently in a TV show. It deeply entrances and speaks to the most interior mind of man that we could call "primal mind". You have to focus behind the subject. For doing it well, you need to imagine that his/her head is transparent. Developing this capacity is useful also for everyday life. Greta Garbo had a similar gaze due to an ocular problem and this is what gave rise to the fame of her powerful eyes. Even Rodolfo Valentino had a similar gaze. But very few know there is also a much simpler way to give a similar impression of depth that you can use in hypnosis, sometimes even stronger, just looking at the chin. The feeling will be very similar. Some shamans as well use this technique.
 
- Adding width to the gaze and excitating the full potentials of our subject 

While primitive humans were highly attentive to their environment, modern man is inattentive to most of his complete field of vision. Most of the time we are only concentrated on the central part of our vision (the fovea) and we do not use our peripheral vision. As the eye is connected to the brain, this also involves that we are only using a part of our brain. If we want our gaze to be more powerful, we must add width to it including also the lateral vision in our consciousness. This advanced technique is very simple. It is just an act of attention. We must try to be conscious of our surroundings as we look at our partner. In order to do it, please pick two spots at the very edge of your vision and try to stay conscious of them. Always try to keep consciousness of where you are. Be present. In our training sessions we see how this simple technique (always maintaining consciousness of the environment) can have strong effects and results on communicating. It will reciprocally stimulate inner potentials to manifest. 

- Other types of gazing. Looking at the mouth of the stomach to take a decision 

There are many more methods for different goals. We will mention just one that I find very simple and can be used in business life. It is useful to bring your subject to take a decision. Look at the mouth of the stomach, imagine an eye and then look at the right eye. This movement will often stimulate a decision in a thinking person.
 
- Imagining and looking 

As you imagine, the pupils of your eyes begin to become wider. Scientific researches have shown that this process is always reciprocal: also the pupils of your partner will become wider and also a sensation of reciprocal "attraction" will develop. Psychologists have proved the connection between width of pupils increase and sexual attraction and arousal. A further step is to train your eyes to be also "penetrating". A useful exercise is to imagine some small arrows going from your eyes to the eyes of the person you are looking at. Practice this kind of training in different sessions in the same way and with the same energy you did when you practiced looking at the point for learning how not to blink. You will soon notice also an additional capacity to focus in all situations of your life.
 
The school of fascination has hosts of these techniques, where specific imaginations and symbols will both increase the width of your pupil and at the same time put you in a specific mental state with absolute certainty.
 
This concludes this practical introduction to the outer techniques of fascination. Further inner and additional techniques include among others energy training, proper breathing, hands movement, other gaze patterns and practical applications. We dedicate many time in our international trainings to these elements. We encourage you to practice these exercises with a friend in order to finely tune them. What you are undergoing is developing new interpersonal skills and abilities. A proper guide is also very useful. Therefore, if you want to proceed further or you wish to receive more explanation on some of them, I will be more than happy to help you with ideas and hints. Please write me at paret@neurolinguistic.com or visit our site http://www.mesmerismus.info. 
Author Resource:- Dr. Marco Paret is the director of ISI-CNV, an international Institute whose goal is to diffuse advanced techniques of hypnosis and magnetism. His main sites are http://www.mesmerismus.info and http://www.neurolinguistic.com.
 
