Fascination and ecstasy Part 1 
Our working methods utilize the powers of fascination and the action of ecstasy on kundalin energy. Doctor Alexandre Bertrand (1795 to 1831) considered ecstasy as a particular state of  sublimation of the lower bodily and mental levels that he compared the state of magnetic  somnambulism of holy men as follows: “Under the name of ecstasy, I designate a particular  state which is neither waking, nor sleep, nor an illness; natural state to man in the sense that  it is constantly seen appearing, always identical in substance, under certain given  circumstances. It is for me the type of the state of the prophets, of the inspired, of the  mystical saints, of the convulsive, of the possessed of all ages and of all countries. Ecstasy is  characterized by the appearance of physiological and psychological phenomena that we will  endeavor to make known. In his mind, ecstasy might have been a moral exaltation which,  carried to a very high degree of energy, opened the doors to other worlds. At the time of Mr.  Puységur's first observations, (°), another magnetizer, called Barbarin, advocated a  therapeutic method consisting in bringing his patients into the world of ecstasy through total  and deep prayer. His method quickly spread throughout France, like a beneficial contagion.  Later, Barbarin will inspire Wuillermoz, a great Martinist. 
Ecstasy also has similarities with the concept of the white work of the alchemists. It is a  moment when there is an energetic "push" upwards. This rise must necessarily follow a  "black phase", that is to say liberation of blocking emotions. Otherwise we run the risk of  carrying upstairs as the ancient alchemists used to say "not enough burnt ashes" 
In our work, the most successful succession will therefore be: Fascination - Crisis - Lethargy - EXTASE. After having worked several times with the crisis, we can also work directly with  ecstasy.
The different forms of fascination 
The operative power of the eyes can dissolve a person's rational will and critical thinking.  The action of the eye can go even further and completely dissolve the ego. Taken to the  extreme, experimental fascination can lead to catalepsy. The subject then becomes stiff  and his attention remains trapped in his head. When a state of catalepsy follows  fascination, the resulting relaxation allows blood to flow back into the body in a natural  way. 
The awakening of the kundalini by the ecstatic fascination of the eye 
Practice has shown us that the fascination of the eye can open the doors to higher  magnetism. 
(°)) Armand Marie Jacques Chastenet marquis De Puységur (1751-1825) is a French artillery general who  became famous for his work on animal and human magnetism. This grandson of the Marquis Jacques De  Chastenet (1656-1743), Marshal of France, was a pupil of Mesmer. He differs from the latter by claiming that  its magnetic action is only an important vector for patients who ultimately heal themselves. He highlights the  particular state of sleepwalking that he can reproduce at will thanks to his patient Victor Race. This ecstatic  state of somnambulism corresponds to a person completely asleep but fully conscious. Sleepwalking would  provide certain gifts of clairvoyance on diseases with cures to the key. Puységur thus proves to Mesmer that  a trance is not obligatory to obtain healing. Among its many actions, it also allows to suspend higher brain  functions. 
This magnetism is overpowering, it acts directly on the subtle body which governs the kundalini and on the  lower mind, where the ego sits. 
The experimentation shows that by dissolving the bonds of the ego one facilitates the development of the  sensitivity which governs the ways of ecstasy and which activates a certain operative kundalinic awakening.  Through the action of the eye, one can also exert telepathic effects resulting in ecstatic sleepwalking which  awakens the kundalinic potentiality. Everything goes like this this eye-like form of fascination possessed the  keys to unlocking the doors of the subtle bodies and the energy of life. These keys, we know them. By using  them through the power of the eye, one can lift the subject to extremely high inner levels, close to ecstasy.  Of course, the work takes into account the presence at the moment. In certain respects, it is similar to the  techniques of Chan (operative Chinese Buddhism with Zen connotations). We have noticed a strong similarity between the effects of eye fascination leading to ecstatic state and the awakening of a kundalini close to  ecstasy. Awakening the adjoining kundalini in ecstasy is a very useful process for increasing one's awakening  potential. Note, however, that the rise of kundalini is not an awakening in itself, but rather something that 
can help to obtain it. Many writings relate the phenomena of ecstasy of the saints but very few explain that it  is diffused by a magnetic exaltation of ecstasy in connection with a kundalinic awakening. 
Self-fascination in front of the mirror A well-trained person can practice fascination on  himself through a mirror. This is why our method provides for intense training in front of the  mirror. In the mirror, there are two energies, ours when we look at the mirror and that of  the image that appears in the mirror. Knowledge of secret exercises is very important in this  practice. In our method, we perform exercises of ancient origin called the double ascent of  the hermetic caduceus. To better understand their scope, it is worth noting that they have a  similar concordance and purpose with the self-development exercises mentioned in Ur and  Krur. The route proposed in UR and Krur is based on a series of passages that we summarize  below: - First of all, there is work on each element to grasp its reality. - Afterwards, we get in  touch with the experience of a different dimension that always remains in us. The work on  the true reality of the elements must be done in an extremely concentrated way. The deep  feeling of the elements pushes us towards the discovery of another consciousness that goes  beyond our simple holographic reality. For greater clarity, let's take what Reghini said in one  of his works: “For consciousness, the sense of ordinary, tangible, bodily reality must fade,  subside and subside; and at the same time the attention of the consciousness must be  focused on the perceptions of the inner spiritual reality, so that what usually is hidden from  it becomes manifest to it, and vice versa. If this “occult” which has an eminently spiritual  nature of sun and fire but perceived at the beginning as “lunar” because hidden, manages  not only to manifest itself but to fix itself in its manifestation, its influence and its imprint  (tincture) will exert an invigorating and permanent action. ”(Ibidem, p. 135). In fact, for  Reghini (°) the extraction of Sulfur (foundation of the Ars Regia) is an interior technique  thanks to which man can become aware of his animate, spiritual and divine counterpart by  diverting his attention from the Salt (body ), concentrating it first on Mercury (Soul) and then  fixing it on Sulfur (Spirit). Ecstatic fascination Its usefulness has been tested in many areas  such as personal development, the exercise of the mirror which in this case is very useful for  self-fascination, the beneficial action on the ego, supra-sensory sensitivity, suprasensory  sensitivity, convulsions, etc. It has a therapeutic goal that makes it possible to solve old  problems that are unfortunately too deeply rooted in our memories. Acceptance of  memories is very important in magnetic unlocks. We will let them go by the crown. We can  let everything start from the top of the head Music and exstasis A powerful instrument can  be music. The ancients said "hear the music of the upper spheres." The harmony of the  spheres or Music of the Spheres is a theory of Pythagorean origin, based on the idea that the  universe is governed by harmonious numerical relations, and that the distances between the  planets are distributed according to musical proportions, the distances between planets 
corresponding to musical intervals. Since complete ecstasies is like an access beyond the  spheres, the music makes it possible to harmonize with the spheres before this final passage,  by also existing partial ecstasies corresponding to the different harmonics. It should be  noted that there is no relation between the music listened to normally and the music  listened to in a state of ecstasies. Sounds work directly on the unconscious and bind to deep  archetypes. This work will develop creativity and a different perception of oneself In ecstasy  there is a particular sensitivity to music. Music evokes all types of reactions As soon as the  music stops, the ecstatic somnambulism remains in the posture he took the last time, usually  catalepised