Deplorable as are the rhapsodies which the last chapter examined, there is nothing new in the state of feeling, of which they are but the index. 
There is a tendency in the human mind to refer every thing that cannot be explained to the influence of Satan; and though this idea of the supernatural has been refuted over and over again by subsequent discoveries, men still continue haunted with the same restless fears of the mysterious, and suppose the man of science to have signed a contract with the spirit of evil. But the one thing in Mesmerism that so especially disturbs the imagination of the timid, and produces so much of painful feeling, is the fact, that the immediate agent is invisible. It is this that throws so mystical a character over the subject . Superstition then comes to the aid of ignorance; for when men cannot perceive all that exists, it is an easy way of solving the difficulty, by assuming that the whole transaction is beyond the boundary of nature. "The devil," says the sermon, "works here unseen."

How senseless is tho objection of those who demand the explanation of a cause, as though there were one power of any description that ever was or ever can be explained. "We register effects, and the course of these effects; of the nature of a cause we know nothing. Gravitation is perhaps of all powers tho most universal and the best understood, but who can explain this ? Even the most expret physicist cannot explain what truly gravitation is. We see the stone fall to the ground, and smoke rise, the storm rushes by, and the mountain torrent dashes over the precipice into the gulf below—but of the cause of all these various and apparently opposite effects, we know nothing—but that the power is simple and uniform; it is attraction, a sympathy between bodies, but which is no explanation. 
We cannot See it, for power is an action beyond the sphere of our perceptions ; we know it in the effect of matter on matter, and can trace the course of these effects through all material nature, but nothing more — we observe the conditions under which each effect is made manifest, but beyond which all is mystery; of the cause we know nothing. It is the same with the phenomena of animal life which we perceive through the action of Mesmerism, M. Vmy, in " L'Art de perfectionner l'homme.


Mesmerism professes to be a powerful auxiliary to the healing art. It professes, right or wrong, to lessen the amount of bodily pain, to induce sleep where sleep is otherwise unattainable, to cure disease where disease is often irremediable. Supposing, for the sake of argument, that the pretensions were altogether erroneous, and that considerable abatement must be made for the exaggerated expectations of over sanguine mesmerists — still, with these deductions, the claims of this discovery to the possession of a large amount of beneficial properties would yet remain considerable. What then, it might be asked, would be the line of conduct, which, apriori, we might anticipate from the friends of human kind on a question of this nature ? What would be the language which a philanthropic profession might be expected to employ, to judge them by the test of their usual demeanour? We should say, that, sceptical as they might be as to the establishment of the fact, their uppermost feelings would be those of a hope that it were true. On presenting to their notice so unexpected a discovery, of course hesitation and incredulity would be not only natural bat proper; still, if they were men—if no sinister influences were biasing their views or warping their hearts, — their desire would be, that what promised to convey so vast a boon to suffering humanity might not prove a mistake. Their fears of its failure might be greater than their hopes of its success: they might apprehend that the anxious wishes of the discoverer had been the " father to his thoughts," and made him arrive too rapidly at a conclusion; still they would listen with interest, they would examine with care, they would themselves experimentalise, and do all they could to sift the question, and establish how much of benefit there might be obtained from the treatment; and if the presumed discovery resolved itself unhappily into an error, they would sympathise in the disappointment of the suffering patients, and feel a sincere regret for the sad frustration of their hopes. These, do I boldly assert, would be the feelings of benevolent men, if uninfluenced by any counter or interested motives. There would be one remedy less for the ills of human life than men's fond expectations had been led to anticipate! 
Mesmerism would, indeed, be overthrown, but the contemplated relief of thousands would be overthrown also!
Has this, then, or any thing like this, been the conduct of our opponents, medical or scientific ? alas for human nature, the very reverse. I Their aim has ever been, not to discover the uses, but to detect any fallacies, of the art; not to avail themselves of its resources towards the mitigation of disease, but to exercise their inventive faculties in starting far-fetched solutions for each result; to fasten on each imagined failure with the most unmitigated glee, to magnify the slightest miscarriage into a defeat of the system itself, to neglect the most important conditions required, and then assume that these conditions were of no moment in the trial: to tax their ingenuity in suggesting explanations that a child could refute; to assert, and reassert, and assert over again, after their assertions had been contradicted by experiments without number;—this has been, more or less, their line of bearing from the very beginning; and to this, though in a more guarded way, do they still adhere. The maintenance of an opinion would seem to be of greater value than the lessening of human ills; and to show that their first conjecture was correct, a nobler triumph in the fields of science than the chance of relieving one aching throb! If really anxious for truth, and not committed to one party-sided notion, why is it that they do not occasionally venture on a trial ? On the contrary, is it not notorious that numbers who have never witnessed a single experiment, who have never attempted even half a manipulation, who know nothing on the subject more than what they have read or heard from their fellow-opponents, pertinaciously cling to their original asseverations, without even the apparent wish of being disabused of their error? While the sounds of victory, with which they hail an accidental disappointment on the part of the mesmerists, are little consistent with the character of benevolent men, who, if not blinded by their own determined views, would readily perceive that the cause of humanity had encountered a temporary discomfiture, and that what was a source of exultation to themselves might prove the death-blow to the hopes of myriads of sufferers!

The above observations apply to one class of opponents; with a second, and, it is believed, a far larger portion, this indisposition for the inquiry may be rather traced to that overweening confidence in their own attainments, which bids men often reject what they cannot explain, and as often qualifies them, in their own judgment, for arriving at a conclusion without incurring the labour of a preliminary investigation.

It might be presumed, in the first instance, that the very last persons to be influenced by this species of intellectual conceit would be scientific men. We might infer that they whose knowledge is built upon induction and experiment, whose every discovery but only carried with it a'proof of man's circumscribed acquirements, and that if much had been learnt, far, far more remained behind; that these would be the humblest and most modest of mortals, and the least disposed to fulminate their dogmata, as though they were the omniscient high priests of nature and her secrets. We can well understand, on tho contrary, the self-sufficient arrogance of some one-idea'd student of theology. This branch of learning, with all its extensive departments, has its limits; one mind may travel over its main points in a lifetime; and the polemic, who is half blind with poring over tomes of patristic divinity, and has mastered every controversy from the dawning of Luther to the defection of Newman, might well be pardoned for indulging in a sneer at the presumed discovery of some unsuspected doctrine in Scripture. But with nature's mysteries the thing is widely different; here a vast illimitable expanse lies before, here the profoundest knowledge is yet but a " little learning;" and with all that has been disclosed to the deepest researches, we are, as has been beautifully observed, but picking up a few shells betide the ocean of truth. No men are more alive to this fact than the scientific; none would more readily acknowledge it; yet, in practice, few have more frequently forgotten it. Experience has shown, in numerous instances, that they . have carried their opposition to novelties in science, not only to an intolerance of the fact discovered, but to a bitter persecution of the discoverer. Pride, a wounded and anrn-y pride, is, in great measure, the source of this; but there are other causes also at work. Our accurate acquaintance with the details of one department, does not necessarily qualify for a broader insight into general nature. The mind may be full and well stored with matter, and yet rendered only narrower in the process. 

As Alfred Tennyson remarks, in the finest of his poems,
" Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers."
Knowledge may be poured in upon the mind in an uninterrupted flow; facts from every province in philosophy may be accumulated without end, one on the other; but that large wisdom which generalises from the mighty whole, which can detect a principle where a fact is but partially developed, and travel beyond habitual studies into the analogous and the cognate; this higher wisdom does not necessarily belong to the accredited leaders of the most erudite academy. On the contrary, they are often liberal but in one line, — and philosophers but in one direction. Out of their particular pale, or set, or pursuit, or theory, they can be as bigoted, or as ignorant as the merest tyro in their schools. As our incomparable Arnold most charitably expresses it, speaking of Johnson's fondness for biography, at the expence of a different department in literature: " We cannot comprehend what we have never studied; and history (read, mesmerism) must be content to share in the common portion of every thing great and good; it must be undervalued by a hasty observer." 


As the accomplished author of the " Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation " remarks, " There is a measure of incredulity from our ignorance as well as from our knowledge; and if the most distinguished philosopher three hundred years ago had ventured to develop any striking new fact which only could harmonise with the as yet unknown Copernican solar system, we cannot doubt that it would have been universally scoffed at in the scientific world, such ns it then was, or at the best interpreted in a thousand wrong ways, in conformity with ideas already familiar

Medical men have another cause in their own minds for this dislike of mesmerism, viz. the consciousness that it would upset a large amount of their present presumed acquirements. Foissac tells us in his report, that when it was proposed in the academy to publish the result of the Committee, labours, M. Castel opposed it with energy, exclaiming that if the facts narrated were true, they would






chapter III

And what is the reply of certain medical men, who presume ex cathedra to give an opinion on the subject without condescending to look into it,—what, we demand, is their reply to the representation of this state ? Simply, that it is impossible; the thing, they say, is in itself impossible; — and consequently that no farther investigation is requisite for the student. To say that facts are extraordinary,— are difficult to conceive,— are contrary to previous experience, is but the duty of a philosopher, who should suspend his belief till every reasonable doubt be done away.* But to begin with asserting, that a thing is impossible,— and that it is contrary to the laws of nature, because it differs from our early opinions, is irrational in the extreme, and eminently absurd in days like our own, when every year we see things accomplished, which in our youth were deemed impracticable. The real question is,—what art the laws of nature? Are they all known and established ? But inasmuch as to set limits in this way to the operations of nature, and call a thing which is occurring every hour " impossible," is not quite satisfactory to the philosophic inquirer, a few ingenious theories are propounded by the faculty to silence the unreasonable questionings of the " impertinently curious."
One gentleman will tell you, that " Monotony " is the secret. The constant movement of the hands before the face •, •— a continued friction by passes down the arm, has, they say, such a dull, deadening effect, that the mere monotony of the action induces somnolency. All this is granted : many a restless invalid has been lulled into slumber by some such soothing process. The tickling of a feather, or the reading of a dull book in a drowsy tone for a prolonged period, will often persuade to sleep. But this explanation will not meet the difficulty. It applies but to a few isolated instances. And first we ask, how many times would this experiment answer in the case of a feverish patient ? For days ? for weeks ? for months ? A daily repetition of the trial would, I fear, soon break the charm. Not so with Mesmerism. The mesmeric sleep is obtained only the more easily and more quickly at each renewal of the process. But with some patients, these monotonous movements, made by parties unskilled in Mesmerism, not only do not soothe, but have even an irritating effect; — to whom, however, the mesmeric action, applied in a judicious way, succeeds at once. I can speak to this point from my own experience. But this is not alL Many Mesmerisers scarcely use monotonous movements at all. The mutual contact of the thumbs, the application of the points of the fingers near the eyes, the pressure of the hand upon the crown of the head, are the plans that I have seen most usually adopted, and which I have found most successful myself. Often and often have I seen patients in a state of cerebral excitement put to sleep in two, in three, in four minutes, by the contact of the balls of the thumbs. A lady has told me that oftimes from the moment her thumb touched the thumb of the Mesmeriser, a 




Imitation"f is a favourite explanation with others; — •nd certainly imitation is a key which interprets many facts


in the science. Imitation is one of the most powerful agents for working on the human mind; — much that is good or wicked in human conduct is the result of imitation alone; — and it may be a curious study for the physiologist to trace the secret springs of imitation to their native source. But though imitation mny explain many parts in the conduct of a Mesmerio patient,—it goes but a small way. How can we explain this fact, that young and artless girls, — the deaf, — the dumb, — the blind, — patients who had never heard of Mesmerism *, — who knew not what process was going to take place, have all equally exhibited the same class of phenomena ? Imitation is often used, too, for a synonym of Imposture. But when employed in this sense, it assumes that the capabilities of the human mind are great indeed, and that the histrionic talent is far more common than is suspected. The lovers of the drama complain that the days of tragic and comic excellence are departed, and that not an actor remains to tread the stage. Unfounded regret ! If the charges of our opponents be correct^ and imitation (or imposture) be the clue to Mesmerism, then indeed actors and actresses of the highest talent abound in every district, — artists, before whom the genius of a Garrick would grow pale, are making the circuit of the country in every direction, — and the art of Boscius is now at its zenith. I have seen ignorant, uneducated, simple persons transformed by the touch of the Mesmeriser into the most finished performers. Yes, — if imitation (or imposture) be the solution, then is a greater wonder established than the supposed discoveries of Mesmer,—and the histrionic powers of the human mind proved to be something beyond the range of old experience. Either way, " the laws of nature " must be remodelled; — old systems are not sufficient; for mentally or physically, a new and wondrous power has been detected, which henceforward must find a place amidst the schemes and divisions of the philosopher and metaphysician.

In facts there are meny disbelievers even in the reality of NLP. 
Faith or confidence in the power, and a desire to be healed by the process of Mesmerism, could be suggested as a cause to which we may ascribe some of the cures of which we have spoken. On this theory, how are we to explain those instances, where the patient had a positive aversion to the practice; where, so far from the existence of faith, disgust and disbelief were the strong predominant feelings ; — and where the remedy was adopted almost by compulsion, and yet the cure and the benefits have been most marked and unequivocal ? Here we can in fact find many disbelievers that goy from Mesmer until now good results. 




Again, therefore, is a fresh interpretation needed, and all is resolved by another party into the large, the comprehensive phrase of "Imagination." Truly has it been observed, that this reference of all these difficulties to the influence of imagination is but " a cloak to cover ignorance." That imagination has a most powerful effect on the habit of the body, we all know. Numerous striking events can be clearly traced to it. Several wonderful cures have been produced by it. It is a Taluable, a useful auxiliary. None but au idiot would deny its power. Still, imagination, with all its vehement effects, has a limit . There is a time when its influence wears off. An invalid often " imagines " that a new medical adviser has been of service, — that a change of medicine has done good, — that a different treatment has been beneficial; and repeatedly has a healthier action been brought about by this power of the mind upon the nervous system. But much too generally the spell is dissolved at an early day. Before the tedious week shall have run its round, a relapse has occurred, and the benefit is forgotten. Not so, again we say, with Mesmerism. The longer it is tried, the more powerful is the hold. A patient may be tent to sleep by imagination two or three days in succession ; but would the same method succeed day after day for several months ? Here is a point on which I can speak with confidence.



OTHERS

Galen, who has been termed the Prince of physicians, and whose name is as a proverb in the profession, was accused of sorcery by his cotemporariea in reward for his unequalled success. "They turned against him even the credit of his cures, by the charge of having procured them through magical means." f Paracelsus, his distinguished successor, was subject to the same imputation. A physician named Sennert, born at Breslaw in 1572, suspected that Paracelsus, had tampered in the blach art, and seriously asserts that extraordinary cures can only be performed by a compact with Satan. For he says, that " the devil has a 




If there be truth in what I have advanced, then perhaps it will be perceived that a great, a long, injustice has been done to men, who are, in respect to Mesmerism, what electricians aro in respect to Electricity. They have made it their study. And, if the subject of Mesmerism have a tithe of the importance which we mesmerists attach to it, it must be made a specific study, and they only who have done so, are competent to judge of it, and to speak about it. It has amused me often to hear persons a propos of Mesmerism say, "Oh I will consult so and so the Chemist—or so and so the great Electrician— and learn what he thinks about Mesmerism. He must know all about it; he is such a great chemist, or such a great electrician." Or again, "I will ask
Dr. C all about it. As a medical man, he may
be trusted on the subject."
Indeed ! and why? Art is long, and life is short: and science demands the whole man. That a man should be a great chemist, or a great practitioner, may, therefore, according to ordinary rules, prevent him from knowing much about Mesmerism.
The folly is in supposing Mesmerism anything from the beginning but a science of observation—in imagining that the students of it have not followed Nature, but have preceded her. Mesmer first discovered, or (as one rather ought to say with regard to all discoveries) perceived the fact that one human being, peculiarly and physically, affects another, by remarking, when he was in the room with a sick person losing blood, that the flow of blood from the vein was accelerated or retarded in the exact proportion that he approached to or receded from the patient.
Since the time of that first great discovery, every step made in the science of Mesmerism has been through the Baconian method of induction. We have observed: we have recorded our observations. This is all.





