ISI-CNV TRAINER-COACH
including... NLP-3, Not Verbal Communication Techniques, Hypnotic Skills
 
The seminar for becoming a Real Professional 
This seminar will bring your knowledge to the "next level": you will find at the same time
Deep insights in NLP technology 
The real and powerful technology of Non Verbal Communication 
The "Natural Coaching" methodology 
Skills for enhancing your ability in remembering and teaching 
NLP and the Enneagram 
NLP-3 and Hypnotic Communication 
Becoming a real Team Leader 
Our Exclusive Methodologies for Business and Leadership 
Mastering the most advanced technologies of change 
LuxMind ® 
Organizational Coaching 
Quantum Psi ® 
Quality Check
We follow this course with the maximum of attention. Our goal is getting you to the highest level!
This Trainer – Coach program will bring you to the highest level as a trainer
It will give you DOUBLE CERTIFICATION and an incredible gain of money and time.
It also will teach you some very new and powerful techniques:
1)     Leadership and Fascination
2)     How to have a better Hypnotic Communication
3)     Time Coaching – Develop your abilities with our exclusive method  LuxMind  ® (LuxMindMaps – LuxMindReading – LuxMindMemory)
4)     Coaching , Quantum Coaching , Natural Coaching  ®
5)     Hypno-Selling and Negociation
What is the ISI-CNV TRAINER-COACH Program?:
 
It is a path completely different from the abitual and traditional paths.
It is aimed toward the future.
You will learn a lot of new powerful elements that you cannot find in on other NLP course.
It is not just a course: it is also a coaching aimed toward you and your potentials.
During the course we will also develop the powerful method of learning called "LuxMind".
The LuxMind method develop your potential to the maximum level.
It is a revolutionary method that will awaken your mind and bring it to learn faster!
This method will also enhance your abilities in Coaching and Creativity
You will learn how to use it with yourself and with other people.
It is based on Natural elements ad secret rhytms and the power of light.
Our learning methodology will bring you toward an efficient integration of the various seminars included inside our trainer's program:

Seminar n. 1: Memory, Learning and Teaching
Trainer's Presence 
Presentation Techniques 
New Mind Maps Technology 
Memory 
Rapid and Photographic Reading 
...everything enhanced and amplified with the powerful luxmind methodology...
Seminar n. 2: Business & Leadership:
Secrets for an effective Leadership 
The desired Leadership 
Hypno-Selling 
Excellence 
Seminar n. 3: Coaching Seminar:
Coaching techniques 
Spirit of Coaching 
Vip Coaching 
Energetic Coaching 
Time Coaching 
Life Coaching 
Creativity 
Marketing for the Coach 
Organizational Quantum Coaching
Seminar n. 4: Practical Hypnosis and Hypnotis Skills
Symbols techniques 
Practice 
Emotional WellBeing 
PsychoSomatic Balancing 
Come to see something really new!
In the course you will also learn the latest developments of Quantum Technology and its use with the organizations.


What will I get with this Trainer's Training?
You will become at the same time:
 
 
 
...The Training I had with dr. PARET was beyond any doubt one of the best Formations to which I ever participated.... I found here informations I didn't find in no other school of NLP in Europe and America ... I greatly appreciated the teachnings of dr. Paret. They are really efficient and immediately applicable in a practical way...
Mario De Luigi - Fiorenzuola (I)
 
HOW THE DIFFERENT SEMINARS JOIN TOGETHER FOR BECOMING THE BEST TRAINER-COACH
 

 

BECOMING A MASTER TRAINER
ADVANCED CERTIFIED SEMINARS
MASTER TRAINER
LEADER COACH ISI-CNV
MASTER COACH
 
These are very advanced certifications and our institute is between the few granting them.
The Master Trainer certification is what a person that has a school needs.
It is the highest level. Whith this level you have the complete formation recognized as Professional Formation.
 
These seminars are of different kind.
They include elements of Quantum Psy ®, one of the most powerful model for the human development. You will learn:
Presence and Objective Awareness 
Quantum Psi ® 
Hypnosis and Hypnotherapy 
Secrets Techniques 
Leader Coach and various other things 
Marketing… 
 With this course you come to a very high level of knowledge. 
 Our goal is to create people that could be creators of the discipline themselves!
 
ISI-CNV http://www.neurolinguistic.com Tel. +393482213449

