Quantum approach and deep hypnotic states. Keys for Esdaile State, Hypnosleep and Deep Somnambulism.

The drawing above reports an example of one of the experiments of the swiss magnetizer Lafontaine. It is a particular state of catalepsy. This state can be induced in most people in less than five minutes, by using the non verbal techniques of the gaze and of the passes.

What are deep hypnotic states useful for?
Deep states are very useful as they will bring your client to another dimension of being where he will feel his entanglement with the universe in a different way.
He will often feel transformed after returning from this wonderful state.
In deep hypnosis we use an approach which is different from the techniques of hypnotherapy, where we use the wiring of our ego, and reframe our behavior.
In the deep states of hypnosis we reach a level where we access a space before the ego, and are in connection with a deeper dimension of being, with what in quantum terms we would call “the implicate level”.
When reaching these levels, we can have spontaneous healings or faster healings. This is due to the fact that the subject will be in a specific state and freer from material constraints. He will also be  beyond his past conditioning. He will be more in touch with his inner core where he can connect to a natural wisdom that heals spontaneously. Many times people will also say what the best way to treat him is, or the words which will be more suitable for his  transformation.  
In these states you could touch a level of joy and a deep discovery of the self which you didn’t imagine could exist. 
As a fact, there are many hypnotists who practice hypnotherapy without practicing them.
But it is true that if you learn them you will greatly enhance your practice.
A strange fact is the deep entanglement which occurs between operator and subject as this kind of hypnosis is developed. 
These deeper states depend in fact on the state of the operator.
Therefore their development implies a deep participation and involvement even from the part of the operator. This more than simple emotional involvement, is an involvement of the unconscious mind. The modern world teaches us to be detached, and we must relearn this approach. In fact these states were very frequent in the past, when people had a more human approach, with countless numbers of interesting experiments conducted initially by hypnotizers and then by magnetizers. 
These results were due to the fact that the framework was different and hypnosis was seen as an art relying on the personality of the operator more than on a technology based on procedures. 
It was a time when people perfermed many vitalistic exercises and worked with the gaze in a way that made him quantistically “entangled” with  the subject.
These ancient hypnotists and magnetists realized many times what in a modern way would be called a healing by resonance. If we want to express it in quantistic terms, it is through entanglement and accessing the underlying interconnecting reality.
Healing was a natural outcome of these states, but there were also many strange effects that ensued as a deeper and seemingly telepathic mind-to-mind connection and an unfolding mind-to-universe connection.

Analgesia, hypnotic anesthesia and deep states
In our analysis of these deep states, we will begin from an element which is very tangible: analgesia or anaesthesia.
A person can in reality believe to be in a deep state, but analgesia constitutes a very useful test.
Deep states of which we speak in this booklet are very technically defined, and there is in fact a strong link between most of the types of deep states and the state of analgesia (absence of pain) aka hypnotic anesthesia.
In analgesia we change our perception of reality and we are no longer captured by external sensations, even painful ones.
The same goes for these states.
The deep states are in fact sensorially based and are characterized by a different relationship to our organs1.
It is to note that historically, when marques de Puysegur discovered for the first time the strange phenomena of deep somnambulism, anesthesia was underestimated, as the emphasis was more on visions and on enhancements of the senses and of  sensitivity.
Only later was anesthesia applied to surgical operations. 
In fact you must be able to achieve analgesia with a subject before attempting these deeper states because otherwise you risk having  the ego of the subject awake and dispersing attention in a way which is not favorable to the results we wish to achieve.

Catalepsy and deep states
Another phenomena you will observe immediately will be catalepsy.
At the highest level the subjects will be as statues taking on any position.
Practically the limbs of the subject will stay in whatever position you will put them.
Catalepsy is a very simple state to achieve, and in general it is easier to achieve with non verbal techniques whereas a longer procedure is required through the use of verbal techniques.
Words awaken the rational mind.
Somebody has hypothesized that catalepsy had something to do with catatonic positions of animals in states of fear.
Each time we have realized it, the personal impression of the subjects is, on the contrary, one of wellbeing.

Automatic movement
We see that if you are able to install “automatic movement” to a person some results will be stronger.
We call automatic movement a continuous movement where the conscious mind doesn’t control what is happening.
The best automatic movement is a recurring one, that will keep the mind occupied while the subject will rise to new heights.
We note a similar phenomena in the Tibetan tradition of the prayer wheels. While the hands move automatically, this is the time to help the rising of kundalini, the inner energy. 
While some sort of automatic movements are natural, as breathing, some others are more rare. Mostly the automatic movements that are useful for our purposes involve the voluntary system.
If we can obtain them, the results will be easier.
In fact automatism is a key for freeing the mind.
As the body moves the mind enters into a higher underlying level. 

Deep states as a way to access the “implicate order”
Our mind filters the reality in such a way that we perceive a three dimensional world.
The first element that filters are words. 
Words, in fact, create and fix reality at a mental level. 
Deep states of hypnosis normally bring us  beyond these kinds of perceptions.
They can be seen as a way to access what in quantum terms could be called the “implicate order”, or, using a term much prised by many “the matrix”.
This implicate order is behind the explicate order we perceive.
Once accessed new experiences can be possible. 

Fascination and deep hypnotic states
In our experience, having worked with the gaze with many subjects, we have discovered that gaze is the most important key to achieve what are called “deep hypnotic states”.
The second key is staying in the non verbal, and using what are called “passes”.
The strong successes you can acheive with the gaze lead us to consider the concept of entanglement between operator and subject.
This quantum entanglement, when using the gaze, becomes extraordinarily strong. The gaze is central in this kind of work.
 




















The development of higher phenomena
It is well known that the early mesmerists constantly and habitually developed telepathic powers in their subjects. Causing their subjects to obey mental orders was a common platform experiment at the time of Lafontaine2. 
These experiments were also often made, under test conditions, by the most careful and conscientious scientists, and the results are recorded in the many volumes on the subject written at the time. Many of these works were written by scientists whose methods of investigation were painstaking and accurate to the last degree. We cannot read the works of the old mesmerists without having the conviction forced upon us, that telepathy was developed by their experiments to a degree almost unknown at the present day. 

Why it is that the power to develop that phenomenon by mesmerists has been lost or has fallen into desuetude in many parts of modern hypnosis, is a question of the gravest scientific interest and importance. The hostility and ridicule of the academicians undoubtedly had its effect on many minds, and caused many scientific investigators to shrink from publicly avowing their convictions or the results of their investigations. But that does not account for the fact that mesmerists, who believe in the verity of the phenomena, are rarely able to produce it at the present day. 

The first question which presents itself is one of dates. When did the higher phenomena show the first signs of decadence? A moment's reflection will fix it at or about the date of the promulgation of the theories of Dr. Braid, who copied some of   Lafontaine’s processes, but modified them, having the subject looking at a bright spot.
It is a historic fact, well known to all who have watched the progress of hypnotic science, that as soon as it was found that the mesmeric or hypnotic sleep could be induced by causing the subject to gaze upon a bright object held before his eyes, the approach of Lafontaine was practically abandoned in the academic world as there has always  been in this environment a strong tendency to remove every influence of the observer. 
Furthermore, as the duration of the proceeding is strictly connected to the capacity of the operator of having strong vitality and concentration, and many people don’t practice exercises to enhance vitality, it was much easier to hold an object before the subject's eyes for a few minutes, with the mind at rest, than to make passes over him for an indefinite length of time, accompanying the passes by fixity of gaze and intense concentration of mind. 
The important point to bear in mind right here is the fact that in the old mesmeric method, fixity of gaze and concentration of will on the part of the operator, were considered indispensable to success. 
In addition, exercises to enhance vitality, concentration and strength of the gaze were widely practiced.
We can think that that the gaze is of foremost importance in order to entangle with the subject and to produce phenomena of a higher order.
It seems clear, then, that it is to this change of methods that we must look for an explanation of the change in results and the drop in phenomena of a higher order. 
That being conceded, we must inquire how the conditions were changed by the change of methods. What effects, if any, either in the condition of the subject or of the operator, or in both, are missing when the new methods are applied? 
It is now necessary to recall to mind the fact (1) that Braid said that suggestion is not a necessary factor in the induction of the hypnotic state and therefore he even removed the importance of the will factor; and (2) that steadily gazing upon an object will induce the condition in a more or less marked degree, whether the subject is expecting the result or not. 
It is sure that intense gazing upon an object, accompanied by concentration of mind, will displace the threshold of consciousness to a greater or less extent, depending upon the mental characteristics of the individual and the circumstances surrounding him. Recent studies have also shown a change in the EEG.

The subjective or inner mind is therefore released, or elevated above the threshold of consciousness, and performs its functions independently of, or synchronously with, the objective mind, just in proportion to the degree of hypnosis induced. It may be only in a slight degree, it may be imperceptible to those surrounding him, or it may reach a state of complete hypnosis, as in the cases mentioned by Braid; but certain it is that the subjective powers will be evoked in exact proportion to the degree of causation. 
  In Braid’s cases it is only the subject who puts his mind in this state, while when a mesmerist employs the old methods of inducing the subjective state, — passes, fixed gazing, and mental concentration, — he hypnotizes (changes mental state) himself by the same act by which he mesmerizes the subject. 

The far-reaching significance of this fact will be instantly apparent to those who are aware that telepathy is the normal means of communication from one unconscious non- rational mind to another unconscious non- rational  mind, and that it is only between unconscious non- rational minds that telepathy can be employed. The conscious rational mind has no part or lot in telepathy until the threshold of consciousness is displaced so as to enable the objective mind to take cognizance of the message. It will be understood, therefore, that when the subject is mesmerized, and all his objective senses are in complete abeyance, and the operator with whom he is in rapport is in a partially subjective state, the conditions exist which render possible the exhibition of powers that could be said “telepathic”.
In quantistic terms we could say that some sort of entanglement becomes possible.
It is two minds of two human beings working together with the idea of healing in one of them. This idea can also be felt in the other mind3.
In fact what we observe in our experiments is that the mere idea of healing, the mere sense of vitality has an effect on the other person.



Entanglement, hyperesthesia and deep states
Deep states have a strong connection with entanglement between operator and subject.
A phenomenology you will observe is something that we could call hyperesthesia, with no clear boundary with telepathy.
In fact the subject will become extremely sensitive to you up to the point where he will have some reactions that are not easily resortable to the senses.
For example you could go to the farthest point in a room, and you will change type of breathing.
The subject as well will often change his / her rate of breathing.
This is an astonishing fact, as many times you will see no cues which will explain such a fact.
Sensitivity and deeper states
Due to the entanglement you have with your subject, it is almost clear how the higher results are achievable only by developing an inner sensitivity. But as you uncover them, you will notice that this is something that pertains to your very same Nature. It is something that has always been there and just needed to be reawakened.

A simple method for somnambulism
If possible, check previously for the subsistence of entanglement with the subject.
In any case this can be secured through the use of the gaze.
Look at the person in the eyes steadily.
Soon she will become cataleptic.
If you want to and you have not done it previously, check anesthesia.
If it works and the person doesn’t feel anything, continue looking at the person until his eyes will close down.
Stay with your fingers near his eyes for some seconds, and then do downward passes causing the person to sit down.
Go until the heart cavity with your passes and ask “does this part hear me?”
If the answer is yes you are ok, otherwise you continue doing some other passes.
After a while ask the subject if she is sleeping.
She will answer with a very soft voice.
If (s)he say yes, you have achieved somnambulism, otherwise continue with some passes until s/he will answer yes.
When you get the “yes” answer you can ask her when she will get well anew and which suggestions do s/he likes to receive.
You can also have her see herself in the future as a vision. 

Let the state develop and enfold naturally.
Suggestion, in fact, is a separate branch of hypnosis. Many times it is better to avoid it and ignore it instead of using it, because it can be a disturbing influence, which interferes with the development of the deepest state, and with the entanglement you are creating with the subject; although suggestion can mostly at the beginning be employed in some form, when it is deemed necessary. 

Trance Termination
Just counting will normally be insufficient.
At the count of ten the subject will not normally be able to open his eyes.
Even if you will not get complete somnambulism, he will strive a lot to open his eyes.
Also if you use only verbal methods the risk is that the subject will seem awake, but immediately re-enter a trance.
It is better to do  some longitudinal passes and blows as well.
These non verbal elements will assure a good result.

Verbal Methods based on words
In our personal experience, the best way, and in any case the most simple way to achieve deep states is through non verbal techniques.
With non verbal techniques you achieve deep states faster.
We will cite in any case two mainstream techniques based on words.
Maybe some of the readers of this booklet already know them.
If you will have mastered what is written in the previous pages, your results will be stronger than whatever results you could have gotten until now.


Esdaile State as practiced by Dave Elman
This hypnotic state is well described in the book “Hypnotherapy” of Dave Elman.
It is not the exact state that Esdaile himself did, but nevertheless has its interest.
We have practiced this technique a lot, and sometimes it can be useful to bring a person in this state since the first sitting.
Dave Elman said he had conceived it reading the book of Dave Elman.
After having induced the patient, tell him there are three floors to descend, in order to arrive at the “basement of relaxation”
Tell him that with each floor he will relax two times more.
You can add that at floor A he will be able to say the letter A
At floor B he will be able to move the lips to pronounce the letter B
At floor C he will be so relaxed that no utter relaxation will be possible, probably he will be able to think the letter C.
After you will proceed with three tests:
Absence of response: you will ask the subject to move his arm. He shouldn’t answer to such suggestion.
Catalepsy: put an arm in any position and see what is happening.
Anesthesia: try to pinch the person. He shouldn’t feel anything.
If the three tests are passed in the order given we have what Dave Elman called “the Esdaile state”.
Dave Elman nevertheless used this state only to give suggestions.
In our experience this state is most useful instead for further deepening or to have the person beginning to experience his body in a different way. 
Hypnosleep (Dave Elman)

Hypnosleep: A simple but very effective technique that you can use to induce and access a powerful trance state.

The difference between hypnosleep and classical somnambulism is that you will not have anesthesia with the subject.
Instead of being a state of higher consciousness, as most somnambulistic states, it has a different quality and many times there is an higher response to suggestions.
The advantage is that this state is a state where we will profit from the normal sleeping state of the mind 


Hypnosleep and “Deep Somnambulism”
We will provide you with a very simple yet extremely effective way to elicit trance that at the same time can fit perfectly in the boundaries of a relationship: Hypnosleep. 

This technique, which was written down by Dave Elman in his remarkable and most famous work “Hypnotherapy”, published in 1964.
It has some interesting connections with another technique called “Deep Somnambulism”.
The main point is that in both these two techniques (hypnosleep and deep somnambulism) there is a strong tie with the concept of “Sleep”.
 
Hypnosleep works through elicitation of a deep trance state by starting from normal sleep: yes, a person can be easily hypnotized while asleep if using the right words and observing some simple rules. This technique can easily been performed even by persons that know themselves very well. 
Where in fact can this technique be best performed, if not in the intimacy of your own bed?
Locating Hypnosleep in the hypnosis depth scale
To understand the power of this technique, you must first get to know the hypnotic depths that are usually taught by and for hypnotists. 
It is true that some schools deny the existence of these hypnotic scales. The fact is that if we concentrate on the phenomena, many phenomena can be achieved even without a previous deepening, but it is also true that these depths can also be considered as specific phenomena in themselves.
Even the famous hypnotist Milton Erickson, father of Conversational Hypnosis acknowledged in some early writings the existence of such a states.
In its later works he didn’t speak any more of them, but just because his attention was in another direction, and in reality never denied them as specific observable phenomena.

From waking to the somnambulistic state
It is said that a subject is taken from the waking to a full somnambulistic state, when the hypnotist is able to perform all the known hypnotic phenomena with the subject, like anaesthesia, positive and negative hypnotic and posthypnotic hallucinations ( a negative hallucination is something that is really there and is not seen by the subject, the subject sees through something), amnesia and so forth. 
Dave Elman noted that an important test for proving somnambulism is amnesia. Once amnesia for the trance time can be achieved, at least through proper suggestions if not (at best) spontaneously, the subject is really in “deep hypnosis” as it is popularly understood. 
An alternative test used by ancient magnetists is the awareness of “sleeping” by the subject. This is something that doesn’t come from suggestions, but instead is the response to a question. When the subject answer “yes” we will know it is really in a deep state.
Achieving somnambulism through the help of suggestions.
Ancients refrained from using words to achieve deep states.
In fact, if somnambulism has been achieved through the help of suggestions from a state where the subject was wide awake and alert, the words had to be understood.
But for understanding words the conscious of the client might be still alert even in light somnambulistic states and therefore be able to filter (if only poorly) the suggestions given to the subconscious, possibly taking control again in case of commands spoken out by the operator. 
Somnambulism and the Esdaile state
Behind somnambulism, or as a deep somnambulism,  lies the Esdaile state, this state is also called “hypnotic coma”, a state of mind that is very deep and is most of the time very useful for therapeutic sessions if used, a state of mind where the subject will not respond to questions given by the operator because the muscles rest, though his subconscious will still be listening and carrying out suggestions with some delay. Waking someone up from the Esdaile State can sometimes present difficulties, since it is a state of mind that the subconscious loves when it is finally achieved, and some hypnotists that have encountered this problem report that it is best solved by telling the subconscious of the subject that if (s)he will not get out of the trance state now, (s)he will never be able to have such a good time again! 
In fact the Esdaile state is a very pleasant state.

Deeper than Esdaile, after having approached a spontaneous catatonic state of threshold, we find other states, called “sichort state” or “omega state” its characteristic being Rapid Eye Movement in deep hypnosis and extreme muscle flaccidity. 

Hypnosleep is to be considered deeper than the Esdaile State. Dave Elman described it at the most profound state of hypnosis ever found (the so called “Sichort state” is comparable and was discovered one year after Elman published “Hypnotherapy”). 

Hypnosleep is very tighthly linked to sleep. Since we started from sleep, the conscious mind is sleeping (not absent!), so the suggestions given to the subconscious will bypass completely the filter of the conscious mind and gain possibly even more power. If the subject is properly treated, it is possible to bring her/him from Hypnosleep to other states and perform every hypnotic phenomena and tests described in the books.

Hypnosleep: The Technique

The original technique requires the hypnotist to approach the sleeping subject crawling very quietly under the horizontal axis of the bed, since if (s)he would approach the subject by simply walking (standing), the subject would be eventually woken up by it’s unconscious “radar”.
This technique can be used between people knowing each other very good and can be very useful for people that trust each other a lot.
Being a couple will solve in fact the problem of approaching at the root, since in 98% of the cases you will be already lying near your mate in your own bed. 
For those of you sleeping in separate beds we will give further hints when necessary. 
The same hints can be useful for a therapist that wants to work on a client. 
Not every sleep depth is appropriate to begin a Hypnosleep induction: all recent authors that described this technique (Dave Elman, Gerald Kein, Don Mottin, Wendi Friesen and others) agree about the prerequisite that the subject must be sound asleep before you can start giving suggestions. 
This means that the subject must perform max. seven complete respiratory cycles per minute (inhale and exhale), even better if only six. At this depth of sleep, the words spoken out by the hypnotist will have a greater chance to reach the subject’s subconscious (and being understood by the latter) before the conscious wakes up. If you lie near your partner and you are the hypnotists, you will have, of course, to remain awake on purpose in your bed and wait until your “subject” is deep enough. This can take a few hours.

When you’re ready to begin, you start by whispering: “This is […] talking, sleep, remain deep asleep”, and you put your own name where the points in the brackets are. You need to say this only once. After this you repeat the following phrase several times (six or seven could be enough), so that the subconscious is able to receive and understand it and synchronize at best the speaking out of the three different parts of the phrase with the subjects breathing, like this:

INHALE 	“You can hear me ….”
EXHALE	“…but you can’t wake up…”
PAUSE	“…remain deep asleep”

Please note that we will be contradicting the correctness of the above mentioned statement, which uses a negation (“can’t”), when we will speak of the appropriate subconscious language to utilize. Anyway, for all practical purposes, this will work. After having repeated this enough times, we need to know if we have established contact with the subconscious mind through the use of an ideomotoric signal. 
An ideomotoric signal is something like a “reflex” that the subconscious gives on its own when asked for it, with no conscious effort at all or like Bandler, the founder of NLP would suggest “with honest unconscious movement”. One of the most popular ways to prove if communication with the subconscious has been established is though the use of ideomotoric finger signals, and this we will use for our Hypnosleep induction. To elicit a response from the subconscious, whisper the following to the subject: “Raise the finger I am touching if you can hear me”  or “I am now going to touch one of your fingers. Raise it if you can hear me”, depending if you have already taken appropriate action or not. Normally I would recommend you to make understood, in advance, that you are going to touch one finger of the subject, since a kinaesthetic stimulus is always a potential interference to the building of trance when the listener does not expect it. 
You will not need to apply any pressure when touching. Repeat the phrase at least three times. If you get no ideomotoric response, then repeat the procedure again all the way from “You can hear me…” until you get the desired response. Once the finger raises, you have established contact with the subconscious mind and the subject is verified to be in a Hypnosleep trance state.

Where do we go from here? I would suggest to let the subject acquire more mobility, eventually bringing her/him up to some reaction by performing a hand levitation first exactly with the same suggestion pattern that you already utilized for the finger signals.
After the hand has risen, you then can start repeating again “You can hear me and you remain asleep, sleep even deeper” raising progressively the tone of your voice from the original whispering to normal conversational volume. Once you’ve done that, you can proceed with any suggestion that you give to a subject in a somnambulistic trance. Have fun.

Reaccessing the state

Once you have achieved any deep state, it is very easy to “anchor” it for future usage. This means that you won’t have to perform the whole Hypnosleep induction again, you will be able to put her/him instantly in trance again. In case of verbal techniques I will show you here just one example of how to anchor the state while the subject is in trance (you will, of course, fail in your proposal if you perform this when (s)he is awake). Tell the subject: “Whenever you and I want to do hypnosis together in the future, all I will have to do is pass my hand down in front of your eyes and I will say the word _______ at which time your eyes will close, and you will enter a level of hypnosis much deeper than the one you are in now” 

As you see the trigger for the anchor is here the action of passing your hand in front of the subject’s eyes in conjunction with one word you speak out, the one you put in _____. The action could have been something completely different, like you touching your right earlobe or scratching your nose, showing the subject a crucifix, a condom, you name it…
Any way is equally good.

Trance Termination
In such a state it is better to count from 1 to 10.
The reawakening is much more simple than with a somnambulistic trance
Tell the subject:
“In a moment I will count from 1 to 10 at which time your eyes will open, you will be completely out of trance and wide awake, feeling fully refreshed and much better than before” (count slowly giving your subject the time he/she needs to return to a conscious state.)

“one  – feeling a wave of energy moving through your body …
two   – every part of your body feeling more alive and energized …
three – reorienting to this room completely now …
four  – bringing a sense of wellbeing within you …
five  – eyes open … fully present in this room … feeling better than before”

Please remember to give the subject not only the suggestion that (s)he will be wide awake, but also that (s)he will be completely out of trance when you will reach the number 5. 
It has been reported that some subjects, who were officially “woken up” after a session at their therapist’s, truly got out of trance while driving home.
I am sure you want to avoid this…

Pitfalls of the subconscious mind language

Giving suggestions to the subconscious mind, in particular at trance depths like Hypnosleep, presents some peculiarities, because of the literal interpretation of the spoken words. The subconscious can be somehow considered a nine-year-old child.
If you ask a subject in trance: “Would you mind standing up?” the subject will respond with a “No” (because (s)he doesn’t mind) and will not stand up, because you literally did not ask for that. The right command would have been: “Please stand up”. Things could get so far that if you tell the subject “say you love me”, (s)he could respond “you love me”. You will need some experience to get acquainted to this. Be careful especially if you want to use complex triggers. If you would want to use more than one word for triggering, you cannot say “…and I will say the words _______ at which time…”, since the subconscious probably will not be able to guess HOW MANY WORDS you have in mind, so it might include also “at which time…” in the trigger and who knows what else. Therefore you must make the subconscious aware of the boundaries in which the phrase is delimited. BE PRECISE. Let the subconscious confirm your most important commands, either through ideomotoric signals (I heard a hypnotists that uses “when x happens then you will give me a big smile” instead of finger signals) or letting the subject repeat the given commands.
 
Similarly, negations should be avoided as a rule: the subconscious tends to ignore them or at least to absorb them with much greater effort than straight affirmations.
That’s why you should never say “Don’t smoke cigarettes”, since this is an embedded command for the subconscious which will understand that (s)he has to smoke cigarettes, ignoring the don’t. One possible way to reformulate this suggestion in a positive way could be “You are free of any need to smoke”. Please notice that in the first induction phrase of Hypnosleep is a negation (you can hear me but you can’t wake up), but this normally works, maybe because the sentence is repeated several times; if it does not work for you, you might want to reformulate the suggestion so that the negation is avoided, like in “You can hear me, but you keep on sleeping…”

This was a raw introduction to some hypnosis techniques that might be valuable for you as a first “hands on”. Lastly, only a proper hypnotherapy training, like one you can attend at the ISI-CNV can help you to become highly skilled, widen your horizons, make your suggestions more powerful and let you gain more confidence in your abilities.

Hypnosleep – non verbal method
This simpler technique is very similar and more efficient. It is based on non verbal reactions.
Simply look at the sleeping person and change your breathing.
Look not at his face, but at his breast.
For better results try for a small time to pace with your breathing the sleeping person.
After a while begin to change the pace of your breathing and see if the subject changes his/her breathing.
In some way his unconscious will “pick up” your change in breathing.
At this point you can also ask for a movement, slowly drawing your hand near the subject.
In any case this is not necessary.

After having achieved this kind of answer, guide the subject in a way similar as in magnetic techniques (thought in our course mesmerismus).

Fascination and instant Somnambulism
Finally a very peculiar state can be achieved through fascination. This was the method of the later Virgilio Torrizzano. 
We were originally interested in deep states seeing his way of working.
He looked at the person in the eyes and he became “fascinated” entering in a state where thoughts were blocked. The time was 4 seconds. Afterwards, the suggestion of the operator could achieve the rest.
Trascendental hypnotism and somnambulism

In reality, what has been described until now, is only the beginning procedure for reaching higher levels. These levels have something in common with Yoga teachings about samadhi.
Bhatta Kallata, in his Spandakarika, described the differences between hypnotic and somnambulistic trances that we can compare to until now described and Samadhi.
The state of viksipta is only a paralysis (emotional or volitional in origin) of the mental flux; this stoppage must not be confused with the highjest  samadhi, which is obtained only through ekagrata - that is, after the plurality of mental state (sarvartha) has been suppressed.4
Samadhi itself has different levels. When Samadhi is obtained with the help of an object, the stasis is called samprajanta samadhi ("enstatsis with support")
As a matter of fact, the very advanced or the highest stage of somnambulism when achieved without suggestions is tentamount to samadhi of the yoga-shashtra, though it is very difficult to achieve. ln the higher stages of hypnotic trance ie, in somnambulism the subject can project his consciousness into any part he desires to.
This is actually, a trascendental state of consciousness in which the barriers of time and space can also vanish.
These higher trascendental phases were examined by many scientists and of interest are the writings of Aldous Huxley.
Huxley was very interested in the writings of Deleuze. 
Deleuze observed that in such states the mind enters in a contemplation or samadhi and alternates between rapt silence and the utterance of sublime things, and that such states might occur more frequently if magnetizers were to intervene less in the mind of their subjects. Evel Huxley came to the same conclusion.
Huxley envisages the possibility that "some ideas arise from sources that are not originally human"5.
Hoxley wrote that the "I" must use its will to bring itself and its body into the condition which, at each successive moment, is most favourable to the influx of animal, mental, or spiritual grace. [..] The 'I' creates nothing. [..] The highest function of the personal will is freely to will itself out of existence, so that divine will may be done, and done not only on the intellectual and spiritual level [..], but also [..] on the physiological level, by making possible an irruption of animal grace 67.
Method of somnambulism of Deleuze
Deleuze simplified a little the way of doing of Mesmer, bringing attention to the right use of passes.
We will cite his method as it inspired Huxley in his writings.
The methods of Deleuze are very soothing and relaxing.
In practicing them your gaze should be concentrated and use the ‘magnetic gaze’.8
See below the difference between the two types of gaze.

Hypnotic gaze

Magnetic gaze
Method 1 - sitting
This first method of Deleuze is very simple and effective. It works easily with most of people. In case you fear somebody doesn’t like to be looked at in the eyes make him look at a light.
1. Speak as little as you can. Exercise your gaze ahead of time, in order to be able to look at a person without needing to blink. The magnetizer and the subject are placed near and opposite to each other, so that their knees come in contact. Exercise meditation before performing, as while you will be looking at your subject you will enter mental emptiness…
2. Being in this situation, the operator takes the patient by both hands, and in such a way that their palms rest against his own.
3. He then recommends both parties to remain in this position until the warmth of their hands are about equal; that is to say, until the caloric is in equilibrium in the two organizations, and which is generally effected in a few minutes. During this interval, it is scarcely necessary to state that thought is busy, and that the will impresses its action on the vital fluid, which is transmitted by the operator, his fingers serving, for this purpose, as conductors while moving along the patient's arms.
4. Have your patient sit down in the easiest position; seat yourself before him if possible, in a seat which is a little more elevated, so that his knees may be between yours and your feet beside his. Ask him to be in an easy and passive state. 
5. After having brought yourself into a state of self-collectedness, take his thumbs between your two fingers, so that the inside of your thumbs may touch the inside of his; steadily fix your eyes upon him, and remain in this situation for a few minutes, until you perceive there is an equal degree of warmth between your thumbs and his. At this point you will move your hands to the right and left, waving them so that the interior surface is turned outwards, and you will then raise them as high as the head, place them upon the shoulders, leave them there for a minute and then draw them along the arm to the extremity of the fingers, touching gently. 
6. You will then commence the passes or downward movements of the hands; at a little distance from the body over the face and chest, to about as far as the pit of the stomach; sweeping them off a little before re-ascending; then descend slowly along the body as far as the knees, and if convenient to the ends of the feet—you may repeat the processes during the greater part of the sitting."— Deleuze. 
Note that the power of the look will add considerably to that of the touch and the will. The patient should keep his eyes open and full upon the operator, whose look should settle as firmly on his9. 
Is the gaze that will create a “quantum entanglement” with the client. Even if the description is long, many times you will get good results in as little as 5, max 10 minutes.

Some effects:
Most people will close their eyes after some moments.
The first test you can do is catalepsy (without speaking). 
You will lift the arm of the subject and you will discover it will stay where you have put it. 
Arms will remain cataleptic.
All these steps will have a very salutary influence on you subject. When we practice this method in our seminars, people always speak of a feeling of incredible peace and well-being .
Method 2
In case the patient cannot raise himself, take your station near his bed in the most convenient manner; take his thumbs, make several passes along the arms, and, if he can support himself upright, several along the back, then; not to fatigue yourself, use only one hand, placing it upon the stomach, and making longitudinal passes, at first slightly touching through the clothes, then at a distance. You can hold one hand fixed upon the knees or upon the feet, while the other is in motion. Finish by passes along the legs, and by transversal passes before the head, the breast, and the stomach, to scatter the superabundant fluid. When the communication is established, one can magnetize very well by placing himself at the foot of the patient's bed, and in front of him ; then directing at that distance both hands from the head to the feet, dashing them aside after each pass so as not to conduct the fluid to himself. Deleuze sometimes produced somnambulism by this process, without establishing the communication by touching.
Further proceedings
This is what I have to say about magnetism by the long pass, with which it is always proper to commence, and to which a person may confine himself until he has a reason for employing other processes.
Let us now consider the circumstances which point out particular processes.
When any one has a local pain, it is natural, after establishing a communication, to carry the magnetic action to the suffering part. It is not by passing the hands over the arms that we undertake to cure a sciatic ; it is not by putting the hand upon the stomach that we can dissipate a pain in the knee. Here are some principles to guide us.
The magnetic pass, if well done, draws along with it the pain.
For example, do you desire to cure a pain in the shoulder? Hold your hand upon the shoulder for some time, then descend, and after having quitted the ends of the fingers, recommence patiently the same process. Would you cure a pain in the stomach, place your hands several minutes upon the stomach and descend to the knees. 
It is often impossible to draw a pain far from the part where it is fixed; and you will succeed solely by driving it off progressively, by little and little. A pain upon the top of the head, will be lessened at first in the centre, by waving the hands downward and outward, on the right and left. At every pass a portion will be dislodged and carried off. It will take more or less time to dissipate it entirely.
Remember also the importance of INTENTION: The processes are nothing if they are not in unison with a determined intention. We may even say they are not the cause of the magnetic action; but it is indisputable that they are necessary for directing and concentrating, and that they ought to be varied according to the end one has in view.
Editor’s note. We could even interpret this result of the movement that draws away the pain as a ‘non verbal suggestion’. We speak to the body with the movement, instead of saying anything. It is one of the simplest methods to begin with.
This method can be reinforced with the gaze. In our experience it is only with the concomitant use of the gaze that the strongest results are achieved. In this case results are achieved in a few seconds. Without the gaze the methods requires more time.
For example, if one has the headache, owing to the tendency of the blood to the head, if the forehead be hot and the feet very cold, by making a few passes from the head to the feet, and others along the legs, the head is relieved and the feet become warm. If one has a pain in the shoulder, and the magnetizer makes passes from the shoulder to the end of the fingers, the pain will descend with the hand: it stops sometimes at the elbow, or at the wrist, and goes off by the hands, in which a slight perspiration is perceived: before it is entirely dissipated, a pain is sometimes felt in the lower part of the bowels. Magnetism seems to chase away and bear off with it what disturbs the equilibrium, and its action ceases when the equilibrium is restored. It is useless to search out the causes of these facts, it is sufficient that experience has established them, for us to conduct ourselves accordingly, when we have no reason to do otherwise.


Deep states as executed by ancient magnetizers and hypnotists.
Puysegur and his mysterious discovery

 
Chateau de Buzancy


“To feel, one needs neither intellect nor science, and Magnetism is felt better than it can be expressed” De Puysegur

Puysegur technique
I will now give you the theory of the Magnetic fluid, with the method of directing that fluid as adopted by the Marquis de Puysegur, for if you can grasp the spirit of the idea, it will greatly assist you in formulating your Will-power when practicing.
Mesmer's theory is based on the concept of something through which everything in the universe is interconnected. It is something before matter. Lacking other terms, he called it a universal fluid
Changes in theory
As Mesmer left the scene, the theory of the universal fluid underwent a considerable modification, inasmuch as the agent was soon believed by the Magnetiser to be a peculiar vital fluid, secreted or accumulated more or less in the brain, and of which the nerves acted as conductors. 
This fluid was described as being subservient to the Will of the Magnetiser, who by his act of volition could control its influence, propel it externally or internally, and direct it so as to accumulate in any part of the living body. In accordance with these views the following are the directions- which the- Marquis de Puysegur gave for conducting the operation: 'You are,' said he, 'to consider yourself as a magnet, your arms, and particularly your hands, being its poles, and when you touch a Patient by laying one of your hands on his back, and the other in direct opposition in front of him, you are to imagine that the Magnetic fluid has a tendency to circulate from- one hand to the other through the body of the Patient. You can vary the position, but always act where the greatest number of nerves converge.”
Puysegur’s discovery of somnambulism
In May 1784, M. de Puysegur10, living in retirement on his estate of Buzancy, near Soissons, magnetized and healed several persons successfully in the preceding way, but then on one occasion he chanced to observe the production of an entirely new11 phenomenon!12 
A young peasant named Victor, twenty-three years of age, who had been suffering for four days from inflammation of the lungs, was thrown by magnetism into a peaceful sleep, unaccompanied by convulsions or suffering. He spoke aloud, and was busied about his private affairs. It was easy to change the direction of his thoughts, to inspire him with cheerful sentiments. He then became happy, and imagined that he was firing at a mark or dancing at a village fete. In his waking state he was simple and foolish, but during the crisis his intelligence was remarkable; there was no need of speaking to him. Some sort of telepathic communication was at work since he could understand and reply to the thoughts of those present. He also demonstrated a phenomenon that would later have been called “clairvoyance”: while in this kind of sleep he himself indicated the treatment necessary for his illness, and he was soon cured.
Below is the direct account of the peasant Victor's case. 
"After ten days' rest at my estate, without attending to anything but my repose and my gardens, I had occasion to enter the house of my steward. His daughter was suffering from a violent toothache; I asked her in jest if she wished to be cured; she, of course, consented. I had not been ten minutes magnetising her, when her pain was completely gone; and she felt no return of it after. 
"Another woman was cured on the following day of the same affection, and in as short a time. This slight success made me try to do some good for a peasant, about twenty-three years of age, who had been keeping his bed for four days in consequence of inflammation on his chest. I went to see him: it was last Tuesday, the fourth of this month, at eight o'clock in the evening; the fever had just become lighter. I made him get out of bed and magnetised him.”
After a quarter of an hour to my surprise I saw this person fall into a tranquil sleep in my arms, free of pain or convulsions. I urged on the crisis, which caused him some giddiness in the head: he spoke aloud of his ordinary affairs. When I thought his ideas might affect him disagreeably, I stopped them, and began to inspire him with others of a more pleasant and lively turn. It required no great efforts on my part to accomplish this. 
Then I saw him quite happy, fancying that he was dancing. I cherished these ideas in him, and thereby I forced him to move himself with considerable activity on his chair, as if he were to dance to an air  which, by singing mentally, I made him repeat quite loudly. By these means I made the patient sweat profusely from that day. After an hour's crisis I quieted him, and left the room. A drink was now given to him, and having ordered some bread and broth to be brought to him, I made him eat a considerable quantity on that same evening, which is something he had not been able to do for the last five days. He slept that entire night; and the next day, not remembering my visit of the previous evening, he informed me of the improved state of his health. I gave him two crises: Wednesday and Thursday I had the satisfaction of seeing him affected merely with a slight shivering. Every day I had the patient's feet put into water for the space of three hours, and gave him two crises a day. Today (Saturday) the shivering lasted less time than usual, his appetite was kept up, he enjoyed a good night's rest; lastly, I had the satisfaction of seeing him perceptibly better, and I expect that in the next three days he will resume his usual employments, etc." 13
Puysegur was discovering somnambulism. Mesmer already knew about it, but rarely applied it.

Dans l’état de sommeil l’homme sent ses rapports avec toute la Nature – in the state of (magnetic) sleep the human being is in contact with all of Nature14

He also discovered that people in somnambulism could react at a distance.
"According to my usual practice," says Puysegur, "I was magnetizing ... and after a quarter of an hour's attention and concentration on my part, and perfect tranquility on his, he told me that he felt nothing. As he had no complaint, this appeared to me quite natural. I however again pressed him between both my hands, merely to try whether I would be more successful; but he felt no more this second time than he had the first. I was at length about to leave him, when, on slowly removing my hand from his stomach, he fetched a sigh, and complained that I was hurting him. As I was not touching him, I could not at first believe it; but he hastily took my hand and lowered it, saying that it stopped his breath. I quickly brought myself again into contact with him, expecting that he would now feel a more intense sensation, but it proved quite the contrary; the pressure of my hand had no effect whatsoever. Upon removing it to a distance of about one foot away from him, he again complained; at two feet distance, he felt a weight on his breast, and desired me to withdraw. I then drew myself back by degrees, and stopped only when he told me his pain was gone and he felt nothing. I was then five paces from him; I magnetized him at that distance by a slow and circular oscillation of my hand; and immediately his head reclined on his shoulder, and somnambulism supervened."
In reality all the records pertaining to mesmerism, both early and recent, teem with illustrations of the way in which magnetic influence from a distance has been successfully exerted upon persons who were quite unprepared to expect it. 
This concept also teams up with the idea we have presented at the beginning of this book regarding a form of “quantum entanglement” between operator and subject taking effect.
The news of his cure was rapidly spread abroad, and from all sides there was a concourse of sick people demanding relief. The phenomena were repeated, to Puysegur's great joy, and he wrote: "My head is turned with joy, now that I see what good I am doing." 
What we learn from Puysegur: with magnetism it is possible to induce a stable state. In this state healing can occur. Similar states of stability can also come about when working with magnetism on animals. They are more stable on the ground, and they let themselves go after few passes.
Since he was unable to minister to the continually increasing number of patients, the marquis pursued Mesmer's plan of magnetizing an elm which grew on the village green at Buzancy. 
 

The patients were seated on stone benches round this tree, with cords connecting its branches with the affected parts of their bodies, and they formed a chain by linking their thumbs together. Meanwhile de Puysegur chose from among his patients several subjects who, through contact with his hands or on the presentation of a metallic tractor, fell into the ordinary crisis, and this soon passed into a sleep in which all physical faculties appeared to be suspended, while the mental faculties were enlarged.
Puysegur had in fact strong attention to Nature. He called his process vegeto-magnetic
He brought the attention also on the importance of the air in helping the magnetic process.
Intuitively affirmed that “the air is the fluid”15, in the same way as in the Indian practice of Yoga the air is ‘prana’, vital force.
Editor’s note: the act of breathing is fundamental even for the operator. All magnetists do breathing exercises. In the morning do 3 or 4 deep breathings. Do the same before working with your client. If you practice magnetism you will increase your results.
Healing through enlargement of faculties
The whole collection of Puysegur’s writings embodies an immense accumulation of experiences with clairvoyant persons during illness in respect to their own maladies. No recent writings on mesmerism in its medical aspect have an equal value with these, for de Puysegur, working with straightforward and earnest faith in his own power of alleviating suffering with the help of Mesmerism, attained brilliant successes, and above all — for later students of the subject — has done unrivaled service in investigating the prophetic and clairvoyant faculties of mesmeric patients, not only in reference to their own but in respect also of other persons' ailments. On this development of their powers he says: 
“Of all the facts of magnetism the most inexplicable, and above all the least conceivable, is, without doubt, that of the vision possessed by patients in a perfect state of somnambulism in reference to the sufferings of others and the knowledge which they show of the remedies and measures necessary for their cure. . . . Anyhow, although there is no known phenomena (in other branches of science) to which one can compare the faculty — the fact is nevertheless real, as certain as the other manifestations of somnambulism already recognized." 

De Puysegur gives full details of the cases of both this and  the simpler kinds of clairvoyance — in reference to the patients' own illnesses — that he had the opportunity of observing.

De Puysegur “Artificial somnambulism”











Cloquet, an eye-witness,16 has given us some valuable information on the subject. He says that the patient's eyes were closed, and there was no sense of hearing, unless it was awakened by the master's voice. Care was taken not to touch the patient during his crisis, nor even the chair on which he was seated, as this would produce suffering and convulsions, which could only be subdued by the master. To rouse them from the trance, the master touched the patient's eyes, or said, "Go and embrace the tree." Then they arose, still asleep, went straight to the tree, and soon afterwards opened their eyes. As soon as they returned to a normal condition, the patients retained no recollection of what had occurred during the three or four hours' crisis.



But it was the cure of diseases at which de Puysegur aimed: therapeutics was his object, as it had been that of Mesmer. He observed, or thought that he observed, that during the crisis, the patients possessed a supernatural power which entitled them to be called physicians; it was, in fact, enough for them to touch through his clothes the sick person presented to them, in order to feel the part affected, and to indicate fitting remedies.



The somnambulist” … “points out the remedies by which his fellow-creatures can be cured, or relieved of their sufferings. I have met with patients of such extreme delicacy of taste, as to be able to choose their remedies with extraordinary sagacity. Hippocrates has said: "In our dreams we can perceive those aliments which best suit our constitutions."

A somnambulist, on touching a patient, generally feels at the instant the pain of the latter in the corresponding part of his own body. This pain is only momentary; sometimes, however, it lasts until the somnambulist awakes. A somnambulist can trace an illness from its beginning, and sometimes discover its cause at very remote periods. (Alphonse Didier)

  
De Puysegur – 1751 -1825
Editor’s note: The fact observed by de Puysegur and his successors is the ability of the magnetized person to indicate by him/herself the treatment necessary for the illness. This is the recovery of a dormant human capacity that has been observed as present even in animals.
For example Dr. Eloy Rodriguez, Richard Wrangham and the famous chimpanzee expert Jane Goodall have studied primates’ innate ability to self-select plants17. Primates have been observed finding plants that, travelling through their stomach picked up internal parasites and worms. We can think that the same ability of finding what can heal him is present in man.
We can use this capacity in our hypnotherapy sessions to help people find solutions on their own.
Magnetism as a healing treatment working on everybody

Since they were solely occupied with the question of therapeutics, de Puysegur and the other magnetizers who followed his example in Lyons, Bordeaux, Bayonne, Marseilles, etc., did not study the natural history of this artificial sleep. 
De Puysegur, like Mesmer, was a healer. But in the case of de Puysegur's treatment we agree with Dechambre that if his faith was robust, likewise was his honesty. 
There was no public exhibition, nothing was done to strike the imagination; there was no selection of subjects from among silly or melancholic women.
The patients of the marquis were patients of both sexes of the peasant class, and were often suffering from severe and obstinate diseases. 
In fact this kind of treatment worked even on animals.
Magnetism on Animals
For example, the Comte de Puységur, brother of the Marquis de Puységur, was second in command of the Regiment of Languedoc when he practiced animal magnetism to heal a dog which had been injured by an angry soldier. The Comte de Puységur approached the animal, which seemed to be barely alive, and applied magnetic passes. The dog was restored to good health in the space of a few minutes. This seems to be one of the first examples in the literature of animal magnetism of the application of magnetic healing to an animal18.
Even Deleuze observed that a dog that had been previously magnetized for some slight pains, came back, and by its demeanour seemed to require the same remedy.19
Developing the Somnambulistic Faculties.
"Of all the discoveries," said M. Deleuze, "which have, since the remotest times, excited public attention, that of somnambulism is certainly the best adapted towards enlightening us respecting man's nature and attributes. The phenomena it lays before us demonstrate the distinction of two substances—the twofold existence of the inward man in a single individual, a direct proof of the spirituality of the soul, and a reply to all the objections which have been raised in denying its immortality. They are also evidence of that truth, so well known to the ancients, that man is an intelligence served by organs."
“The external organs of sense are all, or nearly all, asleep; and yet he experiences sensations, but by another means. There is roused in him an internal sense, which is perhaps the centre of the others, or a sort of instinct, which enlightens him in respect to his own preservation.”
Magnetic Ecstasy
Another wonderful magnetic phenomenon is magnetic ecstasy.
Ecstasy is a state where the mind of the ecstatic does not reflect, it simply contemplates; and the more it contemplates the more absorbed it becomes. 
Maybe we can trace it back to some hermetic-alchemical practices.
An ancient Western tradition is represented by the athanor. The athanor is a three-tier oven, and it is the symbol of the human organism in which the great work of regeneration is
effected.20

The three-tier symbol21 is the same as the Eastern concept of the three tan tien, which differentiates between three areas of the body (cinnabar fields), corresponding to the area of
the navel, the heart and the head.22










In the Chinese tradition, one finds a manner of operating which gradually ascends from the lower to the higher tan tien. In magnetism we can equally bring energy to the top of head. We
create in this way what is called “magnetic ecstasy”.
Physiologically this point of the body (also called ‘vertex’) could be envisioned somewhat connected to the pituitary gland, which secretes hormones to communicate to the rest of the endocrine system and also connects to the central nervous system via the hypothalamus. The thalamus is thought to have a key role in the physical basis of consciousness.
In magnetism we can do the same and get to expanded state of consciousness..
The results depend on practice. Music can enhance results. When we reproduce this state in our seminars people tell us it is incredibly restoring and peaceful.


The theories of Puysegur
As far as de Puysegur's theoretic views are concerned, there were some important modifications of those of Mesmer. 

"It is concerning our sensations that Mesmer has come to enlighten us and his doctrine tends to lend support to all truths that until now, spoke only to the mind" De Puysegur

Less versed in physical science as his master, he always maintains the existence of an universal fluid, of which he recognizes the electric nature; but he simplifies the process: this fluid saturates all bodies, and especially the human body, which has a perfect electric organization, and is an animated electric machine. Man can display this electric fluid at pleasure, and diffuse it externally by his movements, in order to produce somnambulism. 
In any case de Puysegur was not very bothered with theory. He affirmed that the main point was “croyez et veuillez” which means “believe and will”.
Further it was better explained that the “belief” was not to be intended as blind belief in the outcome, as otherwise this branch of magnetism would not be called experimental, but instead in belief to the possibilities and capabilities of the magnetizer to get results23.
In this way de Puysegur modified the tradition he had received from Mesmer, and simple contact or spoken orders were substituted for the use of the baquet. There were no more violent crises, accompanied by cries, sobs, and the contortions of an attack of hysteria; instead, there was a calm, peaceful, healthy, and composed slumber. This was not a transformed phase of magnetism, but the actual discovery of this state, the honour of which is due to de Puysegur.

“Among the curative crises which evolved, the most remarkable of all is that called somnambulism. In these crises, the external senses are alone impregnated with the principle of feeling. A great development is received, and an extraordinary instinct exhibits itself in the patient, who then acquires an internal knowledge as well as the remedies suitable to his disorder; sometimes even his senses become so delicate as to enable him to perceive the morbid causes and their remedies.” A. Didier
Two different complementary approaches
Germany
Mesmer's original theory of a universal medium or “fluid”, the free and regular circulation of which through a human being produced health, while any obstruction, or impediment to that free circulation, caused disease
France
Puysegurean or Experimental School: sickness arises from want of an adequate supply of the vital magnetism which is degenerated by the organism itself, and which one person can impart to another, or aid him in extracting from the circum-ambient ether
This approach echoes Paracelsus’ theory and it is similar to some oriental views.
To make it work it is necessary to put intention and “let things happen”. 

This second theory is more simple and centered on the individual and its influence. In quantum terms it is an entanglement or cointrication: As the operator is entangled together with the subject the subject will feel the energy24. The subject will feel it. The more the subject lets his mind free the better it is. 
 


Hypnotic Anesthesia
At the beginning, anesthesia was seen just as a byproduct of magnetism and of no immediate value.
But later with its use for surgical operations, anesthesia became widespread.
Until insensibility to pain was produced by Animal Magnetism, every surgical operation was the infliction of torture, often of the most excruciating kind. 
But with animal magnetism, instead of the patient being strapped down immovably, while the surgeon did the best he could upon the writhing, struggling, screaming form, the magnetized patient placidly slept, or calmly conversed with a bystander, while a limb was amputated, or a tumour cut out. 









A case of the absolutely painless removal of a cancerous breast was one of the facts certified to in the Report of 1831; and, year after year, the perfectly authenticated record of painless operations in the magnetic state grew larger. Of course these cases aroused the curiosity and interest of the public; and this greatly disturbed the doctors, who met the accounts by declaring that the patients had been bribed or trained by the magnetizers to pretend to feel nothing; and that even if the insensibility were true, -it is wrong to bring it about, for pain is part of God's order, and, therefore, beneficial. An instance in point is thus mentioned by Dr. Kingsbury in his work on Hypnotic Suggestion:-
"In November, 1842, a report was read to the Royal Medical and Chiropodist Society of London of an amputation of the thigh painlessly performed during hypnosis (mesmerism), by Mr. Squire Ward,of Wellow Hall. This paper was received with the greatest derision. Dr. Copeland moved that all mention of Mr. Ward's case be erased from the minutes, because ‘if the account of the man's experiencing no agony during the operation were true, the fact was unworthy of consideration, because pain is a wise provision of Nature, and patients ought to suffer pain while their surgeon is operating; they are all the better for it, and recover better.' Among the others who were present and acquiesced in this folly were Sir Benjamin Brodie, Mr. Lister, Mr. Caesar Hawkins, and Dr. Marshall Hall."
Dr. James Esdaile, who worked in India, reports hundreds of cases where the use of magnetism was helpful to get anesthesia. 
Esdaile wrote that “animal magnetism is a natural God-given method of healing. The power produced is similar both in quality, character and degree to the power of the Creator. All men have within them special power given by God to direct their movement and provide for themselves”.
The discovery of chloroform relieved the doctors from their embarrassment by putting into their hands a means of producing insensibility which could be used with everyone, and was speedy in its action; whereas, the production of magnetic insensibility was  tedious and uncertain for most physicians who hadn’t been properly trained, although in every other way better than that produced by chloroform. 
Chloroform is well-known for having killed its hundreds every year, while no death was ever caused by magnetic insensibility; but the public was told that in these fatal cases there was something wrong with the patient himself, whose fault, in a sense, it therefore was, and not the fault of the chloroform or of the doctors, that the accident occurred. 
We constantly read in the papers of last century of a death under chloroform, followed by the verdict at the inquest, dictated by the doctor, of "died from failure of the heart's action" -all deaths come from "failure of the heart's action," or else "from want of breath," but neither coroner nor jury ever seem to see the doubtless unintentional medical joke.25
James Esdaile.

India – Mental phenomena-—He thought that Mesmerism should be known to everyone-Its benefit in therapeutics-Its efficiency in insanity-Esdaile's broadness of view-His belief in the "fluid"    Mesmerism known to the Faquirs of India




“Wonderful to say, this greatly desiderated and almost unhoped for curative agent not only exists in Nature, but is an essential element in the human constitution, … most persons possess the power of curing others, or of being themselves cured occasionally, by an inherent sanative influence propagatable between different individuals: for health is transmissible as well as disease, it appears.” James Esdaile
His wonderful success in India
James Esdaile pre-eminently deserves the title of "Great Mesmeriser," for no one else has approached him in the daring and successful use of Mesmerism to produce insensibility to pain in severe surgical operations. Esdaile was a young Scotch surgeon, born in 1808, who went to India at the age of 23 in the East India Company's service, and, a few years later, was appointed to the charge of a small hospital at Hooghly, a village `25 miles from Calcutta. While there he read Elliotson's Harvean Oration, and was much impressed by his declaration "that he would despise himself if he denied the truth of the mesmeric phenomena." 

His first experience, and what it taught him
In 1845 he experimented on a native convict under his charge, and then upon other surgical patients, and his success was so striking that Sir Herbert Maddox, the Governor of Bengal, appointed a committee of seven (four of whom were medical men) to look into the matter. They attended nine operations, and reported that it was, in their opinion, "'incumbent on Government to afford to their zealous and meritorious officer (Mr. Esdaile) such assistance as may facilitate his investigations." 




Accordingly a small hospital was opened by public subscription in Calcutta for Mr. Esdaile in November, 1846, under Government auspices, and "Visitors" were appointed by the Governor.26

Opposition and triumph
His success there was so great, and the Report of the Visitors so favourable, that Lord Dalhousie, the Governor-General, appointed him Presidency Surgeon,27 and afterwards Naval Surgeon, and an Order in Council made it obligatory for all surgeons, after taking their degree in India, to take a two months' course of practical mesmerism under Mr. Esdaile. In all, Esdaile performed 261 operations under mesmerism, almost all of them of the severest kind, including zoo excisions of scrotal tumours, weighing from 10 to 103 pounds, an operation so generally fatal that in most of the cases which he successfully treated no other surgeon would operate, and he never lost a patient in these cases.28
In 1848 chloroform began to be employed in India, and was taken up warmly by the Faculty there, and in consequence the utility of mesmerism in surgical cases ceased to attract attention.
Esdaile retired from the Company's service in 1851, returned to Scotland, and settled near Perth, devoting himself to the recording of his mesmeric observations and experiences in India. He soon found Scotland too cold, after twenty years' sojourn in India, and came South, dying in Sydenham in January, 1859, aged 50. Mr. Esdaile did little actual mesmerising after he left India, for he had retired from surgical practice, and he had not personally operated mesmerically for many years; moreover, he thought that "only the depressing influence of disease will be found to reduce Europeans to the impressionable condition of the nervous system so common to Eastern nations." Esdaile thus graphically describes his first experience in mesmerism:-
" At the time of making my first experiment, I had never seen anyone mesmerised, nor read a mesmeric book, and had only conversed with one person who had witnessed the mesmeric phenomena. My informant, being a trustworthy gentleman, excited my curiosity, but as I could get no books on the subject, I determined to experiment for myself, leaving the when and the how undetermined. Accident decided this for me, and under circumstances that precluded the possibility of mistake. On the 4th of April, 1845, a Hindoo of the lowest caste was brought to the hospital with a double hydrocele. The water was drawn off one side of the scrotum, and two drachma of the usual corrosive sublimate injection thrown in. On feeling the pain from the injection, the man threw his head over the back of the chair, and pressed his hands firmly upon his groins, making the grimaces of a person in pain. Seeing him suffering in this way, it occurred to me to attempt to mesmerise him; and turning to my native assistant, I asked him if he had ever seen a person mesmerised. He said that he had seen it attempted at the Calcutta Medical College, but without success. ‘I have a -great mind to try it on this man,` I said, ‘but as I never saw it done, I shall probably not succeed.' Without a word said to the man, his eyes being still closed, I began to make passes from the crown of his head to the pit of his stomach without touching him. I continued this for half an hour, and then gave it up in despair, seeing no sensible effect. While resting myself (the thermometer was 850) I desired the man to open his eyes, and he said he saw smoke. This aroused my attention, as I had heard of mesmeric haze. He shortly removed his hands from his groins, crossed his arms on his breast, and all signs of uneasiness disappeared. In half an hour more, he took no notice of my questions, and remained perfectly passive while I drove a pin into the small of his back. Latterly his back began to arch backwards, and he was now in a state of opisthotonos, the nape of his neck resting on the back of the chair, and his breech on the edge of the seat. Being now convinced that we had got something extraordinary, I went over to the adjacent court house, and begged the judge and the collector of the district to come to the hospital. 
We found him in the same position I had left him in, and no hallooing `could attract his attention. Fire was applied to his knee without his shrinking in the least, and liquor ammonia that brought tears into our eyes in a moment, was inhaled by him for some minutes without causing an eyelid to quiver. I now bent his head forward, and placed his eyes in front of a mid-day Indian sun. On opening the eyelids, his pupils were seen to be dilated as if by belladonna, and the light produced no effect whatever on the iris. We were all now quite satisfied that total insensibility of all the senses existed, and left him. He awoke after three hours, and had no recollection of what had happened.
"From a careful survey of all the attending circumstances of the case, I felt confident-
I.—That it was morally and physically impossible that the man could be an impostor, inasmuch as he could not imitate what he had never heard of. But allowing that he had suppressed
all expression of pain by a powerful effort of will, it was absurd to suppose that he could by any act of volition control the movements of an involuntary organ like the iris.
2.—That as the man could not possibly imagine what was expected, there could be no imagination at work in the matter.
3. —That there was no consent or mental sympathy between the parties; and it has been seen that there was no suggestion.
4.—That it was not necessary for the patient's eyes to be open."
From this and other early cases, Esdaile drew four conclusions, namely:-
“I.—I was certain (if life is not a phantasmagoria) that in the mesmeric trance the muscles of the whole body had been as plastic and obedient to my command as clay in the hands of the
potter; and I felt satisfied that if the same state of things could be brought about, muscular spasms and contractions would disappear before the great solvent. The straightening of limbs long contracted soon verified this inference.
2.—Having in this case witnessed the total extinction of nervous irritability, I was led to conclude that in a like state of things, nervous pains would vanish before this supreme anodyne. The cure of nervous headaches immediately demonstrated the truth of this idea.
3.—The insensibility to pain convinced me that 'the most painful surgical operations might be performed without the knowledge of the patient, and this has been done to an extraordinary extent, so much so, as to be a daily matter of course.
4.—I had seen high local inflammation and sympathetic fever suspended during the trance in my first patient, and the artificial inflammation (which it was my object to excite for the - cure of hydrocele) did not develop itself, and that the pulse and temperature had become natural; hence, I inferred that inflammation was probably incompatible with such a state of the constitution, and I soon succeeded in curing acute inflammation of the eye and testes by no other means than the mesmeric trance."
In later years he stated his general conclusions as follows:-
“I.—That mesmerism is a natural power in the human body.
2.—That it affects directly the nervous and muscular systems.
3.—That in the mesmeric trance the most severe and protracted surgical operations can be performed without the patients being sensible of pain.
4.—That spasms and nervous pains disappear before the mesmeric trance.
5.—That it gives us complete command of the muscular system, and is, therefore, of great service in restoring contracted limbs.
6.—That the chronic administration of mesmerism often acts as a useful stimulant in functional debility of the nerves.
7.—That as sleep and the absence of all pain is the best condition of the system for subduing inflammation, the mesmeric trance will probably be found to be a powerful remedy in local inflammations.
8.—That the imagination has nothing to do with the first physical impressions made in the system by mesmerism, as practised by me.
9.—That it is not necessary for the eyes to be open; I always shut them as a source of distraction; and blind men are as readily mesmerised as others.
I0.—That water can be charged with the mesmeric fluid, and has a powerful effect on the system when it has been previously affected.
II.—That the mesmeric influence can be transmitted through the air to considerable distances, and even pass through dense materials."
I do not think that the great importance of Esdaile's mesmeric experiences has ever been fully perceived. In one respect 'those experiences’ were unique, for he conquered his enemies, and brought mesmerism into the forefront of surgical, if not of medical practice. He occupied the extraordinary, almost unnatural, position of a mesmeriser who was treated not only with respect, but with honour by his fellow citizens and by the Government. It was only a section of his professional brethren that continued to oppose him, and that opposition appeared far more important than it was, because those who promoted it controlled some of the Indian medical periodicals and schools. The Calcutta Medical College was Esdaile's greatest foe, and the Calcutta Medical Journal called his patients "a set of hardened and determined impostors." Esdaile laughs at this, and says that he has more operations to perform in a month than all the other hospitals in Calcutta put together have in years, so he supposes the Hindus find it great fun to come hundreds of miles to get capital operations performed on them, and when they go home persuade their friends to come and take a part in the joke; for he can imagine no other motive for the tremendous and wholesale imposture than the fun of mystifying the Faculty of Calcutta. His own experience evidently reminds him of Galileo, for he quotes Galileo's letter to Kepler; and he says that he felt like "a keeper of a madhouse whose patients have risen in rebellion and threatened to put him to death if he did not confess himself to be the only madman in the establishment." Before Esdaile left India, however, he was able to sing a song of triumph; and in "Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance" (1852) he says:-
" The daily press, with one or two exceptions, at first joined in the orthodox medical howl against me, having been misled and imposed upon by the reckless assertions and confident dog-matism of the professional part of the press. But the judgments of the lay editors were not permanently obscured by professional bigotry, jealousy, and wounded self-love; and, soon perceiving that they had been blind guides, they not only professed their conversions, but indignantly turned upon and punished their mis-leaders, and at the end of the year there was not a paper from Cape Cormorin to the Himalayas that did not wish mesmerism and me God-speed."

Esdaile’s method of mesmerising 
One other point in regard to which Esdaile differs from every other magnetiser since Mesmer, is the originality and independence of his ideas and methods. He began, as we have seen, with very vague ideas of the "science", and his mind was not biased by preconceived theory or anticipation. He thus describes the method which he always followed:-
" Desire the patient to lie down and compose himself to sleep, taking care, if you wish` to operate, that he does not know your intention; this object may be gained by saying that it is only a trial; for fear and expectation are destructive to the physical impression required. Bring the crown of the patient's - head to the end of the bed and seat yourself so as to ‘be able to bring your face in contact with his, and to extend your hands to the pit of the stomach, when it is wished; make the room dark, enjoin quiet, and then, shutting your patient's eyes, begin to pass `both your hands `in the shape' of claws, slowly, within an inch of the surface, from the back of the head to the pit of the stomach; dwelling for several minutes over the eyes, nose, and mouth, and then passing down each side of the neck, go downwards to the pit of the stomach, keeping your hands suspended there for some time. Repeat the process steadily for a quarter of an hour, breathing gently on the head and eyes all the time. The longitudinal passes may then be advantageously terminated by placing both the hands gently but firmly on the pit of the stomach and sides. The perspiration and saliva seem also to aid the effects on the system. It is better not to test the patient’s condition by speaking to him, but by gently trying if the cataleptic tendency exists in the arms. If the arms remain fixed in any position they are left in, and require some force to move them out of every new position, the process has been successful” (and the surgical operation may begin).
To de-mesmerize:-
	 “Blowing sharply in the eyes,29rubbing the eyelids and eyebrows, rapid reverse or transverse passes.”

Esdaile soon found that it was impossible for him to do the actual mesmerising himself; and he made use of the attendants and servants at the hospitals for that purpose, and they soon became strong and skilful magnetisers. He says:-
"A Bengal coolie, or pariah, comes before me for the first time, and I see that he has a disease requiring a surgical operation. I never say a word to him, but desire my assistants to take him to another room and mesmerise him. They desire him to lie down, and shut his eyes, and try to sleep, as they pass their hands over the most sensitive part of the body, exhaling their breath upon the patient, and loading him with their sweat if he does not readily yield to the mesmeric influence. A few minutes of this will sometimes suffice, but more generally it takes hours, and relays of mesmerisers. The lads varied the routine, however, to suit their convenience. One preferred to place both his hands on the pit of the stomach from the beginning to the end of the process, breathing on the eyes and head all the time. Another placed one hand on the pit of the stomach at the beginning, and made passes slowly over the face with the other, changing hands when tired. A third would make passes from the stomach upwards to the head; and they seemed to succeed equally well-provided they attended to the work. A moderate degree of continued attention is indispensable. Otherwise the passes are mere mechanical movements without vitality, and the lads knew from experience that if they did not work with a will they were losing their time.
Whenever a new mesmeriser was wanted my assistants brought some healthy young man who was willing to learn the art, and in a week be became a skilful mesmeriser under their directions."
As Esdaile's use for Mesmerism was in most instances to produce insensibility for surgical operations, he naturally laid most stress on the production of the sleep, and the methods he uses may appear to some to have been coarse and material. However that may be, they succeeded perfectly. He simply gave his directions, and told his assistants to let him know when the patient was ready to be operated upon, which might be either a matter of minutes, or of days; but we do not read of failure to produce insensibility in any case, and in every case the result of the process was total and complete anaesthesia, a very different thing indeed from the "slight drowsiness" or "characteristic vibration of the eyelids" which hypnotists include in their "degrees of hypnosis." He does not seem to have taken any interest in mental methods of producing mesmeric phenomena; he explains their action thus:-
"The mental phenomena are likewise to be accounted for by the theory of physical effects of Mesmerism. Our nervous fluid not only flows in the direction desired by the will, but is also, as we may reasonably conjecture, stamped with our own individuality, and conveys both our physical and mental peculiarities along with it into the system of another. This natural, homogeneous, thought-stamped nervous fluid is transmitted to the mesmerised person's brain through the medium of his nerves; and the consequence is that the thought-modified nervous fluid of the active brain is both reflected and understood by the passive brain of the patient, exactly as the passive end of the electric telegraph records the impulses received from the active extremity of the battery; the difference being that the human battery feels as well as reflects the impressions transmitted .  .  .  This theory will apply equally to the medical part of the subject, and exhibits how the mesmeriser can at pleasure equalise, augment, or torpify by an artificial plethora the nervous powers, and can thereby conquer disease, and take off the sting of pain."
He says however: "I wish it to be understood that I speak only of the physical and inferior mental phenomena, of the higher mental phenomena I have no knowledge; to produce them, mental sympathy will no doubt be indispensable." Elsewhere he says: "In subjecting my patients to the sanative influence of Mesmerism for bodily complaints, no mental rapport has ever been thought of." 
He did not perceive that the desire on his part to cure and do good, and on his patients' part to be cured, created the mental rapport which De Puysegur and Deleuze considered sufficient to make the magnetic process effective. Moreover, he practised a form of Suggestion without knowing it, for he used to "bid" subjects to sleep who had been frequently mesmerised, and the command took effect at once. He says that this "spontaneous mesmeric condition" (as he regarded it) "differed in no particular from that induced by the direct application of the mesmeric influence." He severely criticised those who mislead a subject by false statements, and then say the whole thing is imagination, since they have "done nothing" and yet the subject has gone into a mesmeric state. This has been a favourite way of "disproving the existence of any outside influence or agent," ever since the days of the first French Commission, when in Dr. Franklin's garden the Commissioners told a boy who was an excellent subject that he would be taken to a magnetic tree, and instead conducted him in succession to four trees that had not been magnetised, at each of which he got more and more into the mesmeric state; and similar experiments are accepted even still as proof that the hypnotic condition is always brought on solely by the subject's auto-suggestion.
Of those who say that Mesmerism is produced without an operator or "by doing nothing" Esdaile says:-- 
"The truth is that they were taught their favourite trick by the mesmerisers, who have not only declared that this can be done, but it is a natural consequence of their proceedings if carried to a certain extent. It is often very difficult and laborious to excite the mesmeric action in the constitution; but being once excited, a very slight recurrence to the original process will bring on the paroxysm in all its first intensity, and if the excitement of the nervous system is kept up by frequent mesmerising, it takes on an independent diseased action, obeying constitutional laws which we do not understand; we, in fact, have inoculated the system with a nervous disease which often acts spontaneously, especially on reference to the primary cause; and at this stage the candid medical observer steps in, and demands the applause of an admiring and confounded world for having done with ‘nothing’ what has cost his stupid mesmeric brother so much trouble to effect."
As a rule, however, Esdaile was anxious to avoid mental effects, because he thought they interfered with the physical effects which he wished to produce. He says:-
"Having been long familiar with the power of habit and expectation before Hypnotism or Electro-biology were heard of, every possible precaution was taken to exclude these sources of fallacy. But a dove-like simplicity seems to be considered the badge of all our tribe, and no mesmerist gets credit for having sufficient common sense to take the most common precautions in making his experiments."
In drawing conclusions from his experiences, he put aside everything that might be the result of habit or training:-
"All practical mesmerists know how the specific mesmeric symptoms become complicated with the effects of the imagination and unconscious volition when highly-sensitive subjects are frequently experimented upon. To guard against this source of fallacy, I shall only relate the results of first experiments made upon different subjects."
It is quite possible that Esdaile would have considered most of the ”excellent subjects" of our hypnotists in the light of unfortunates who are afflicted with a serious disease, for he regarded great susceptibility to Suggestion as a sign of the "mesmeric disease":--
"Mesmerism, like all other powerful natural agents, is not only a remedy, but becomes a formidable disease when pushed too far, and deeply rooted in the constitution; and a knowledge of this is the key to a variety of anomalous phenomena-mesmeric in origin, but not produced by it at the time, and which give rise to absurd charges of imposture, delusions, &c., from persons totally ignorant of the subject. These are, in fact, the secondary or constitutional symptoms of the primary disease, mesmerism, which has contaminated the nervous system and predisposed it to take on the mesmeric action whenever it is deranged, especially by anything having reference to the process by which it was first developed in the system. In this respect Mesmerism very closely resembles Hysteria, which, however primarily induced, is apt to recur on the agitation of the body or mind, more particularly if it is in any way associated with the first disturbing cause; and they both correspond in each, being sometimes voluntarily producible. To the experienced person, the springing up of the mesmeric phenomena, without the usual exciting cause, is a moral demonstration that the system has been previously revolutionised by mesmerism. The nervous centres having become morbidly sensitive by the action of this great nervous excitant, every shock to the nerves, especially if connected with Mesmerism, is exhibited in the shape of abnormal mesmeric symptoms."
In Braid's Hypnotism Esdaile saw an example of the action of an abnormal exertion of a part of the organism on the general nervous system. He says:--
"The whole nervous system may be deranged by the exhaustion of a particular organ, as has lately been practised by Mr.Braid, of Manchester, who entrances his patients by making them gaze with a double 'inward squint at an object placed before their eyes."
We shall see by and by that Braid ended by abandoning the belief that the violent squint was necessary, and that he even operated on blind people; and it seems quite possible that he- had heard of Esdaile's doings in Calcutta, and that he may have been influenced thereby. At all events Esdaile evidently regarded him as a fellow-mesmeriser. He merely remarks that Braid's method of producing the trance is a very old one, being that of the monks of Mount Athos, and of the faquirs of India.
He thought that Mesmerism should be known to everyone
Esdaile, like all other medical magnetisers, is very severe on his own brethren for their treatment of Mesmerism. He says that at first he was disposed to make his experiences known only to members of the Faculty, but that he found that they were either hostile or indifferent, and so he determined to make them known to laymen also, who showed a much more intelligent interest in them; although he believed that Mesmerism is a subject that belongs, properly speaking, to the doctors. He said:-
"The public are too apt to consider the subject of Mesmerism as a professional one, and not to take the necessary means to become acquainted with it till the doctors shall have decided what is to be believed about it. This is an error on the part of the public, for, I am sorry to say, medical men as yet know nothing about it; and there is nothing in their previous knowledge, however great and varied, that bears upon the subject, or can entitle them to decide ex cathedra on the truth or false-hood of the new discovery. As the question at present stands, it is one of facts, and of evidence in support of them, of which a jury of sensible unprofessional men can judge as well as so many doctors, to whom the subject is equally new and perplexing. When the doctors have experimented for themselves, or taken the trouble to witness the practise of others, and carefully studied the subject, the public cannot do better than take them for their guides."
His conception of the true function of the physician resembled Mesmer's:-
"The whole art of the true physician is exerted to induce Nature to interfere and take up the case of his patient; and, when he sees signs of her gracious presence, he only reverently looks on and confines himself to removing impediments in her way. But the routine practitioner will rarely condescend to divide with Nature the merit of the cure. He and his pills, powders, and potions must have all the credit; and if anyone pretends to be able sometimes to cure disease by the unassisted powers of Nature he is called a quack, impostor, or fool, and hunted down as a fera natura. But, in my estimation, the genuine medical quack is he who, professing to cure disease, yet allows his patients to suffer and perish by ignorantly, or presumptuously, despising any promising or possible means of relief."
Esdaile condemns the absurdity of making insensibility to pain the only test of the reality of Mesmerism. He says that doctors have heard of mesmeric coma, and, knowing nothing of Mesmerism, imagine it to be always present, and are ignorant of any other criterion, for the doctors do not know Mesmerism when they see it. He says:- 

"I am anxious that the public should know what Mesmerism really is, in order that they may know it when it comes before them, and be no longer deluded by ignorant and interested quasi-descriptions of it. The involuntary quivering of the eyelids and the spasmodic closing of the eye in persons a minute before wide awake, and resisting perhaps; the extinction of one or more of the organs of sense, which we saw in full activity but a moment ago; the eye turned up so that only the white can be seen, or staring wide open, fixed, and insensible to light; sleep-walking, delirium, convulsions, catalepsy, in persons not subject to those affections till they were subjected to the mesmeric process - is not any one of these induced symptoms as clearly the effect of some constraining influence as the production of insensibility?"



He says:-

"If medical men wish to see and understand the effects of Mesmerism on the body, the natural and rational mode of proceeding is to attempt to develop them in the persons of their own patients; and, if they will take a tithe of the trouble I have been at, I can promise them very general success. The finest as well as the most striking phenomena will then be equally diagnostic to their practiced eyes, and their understandings will be left clear and free to study and imitate the curative processes of Nature, undisturbed by doubts and suspicions regarding the powers of observation and the honesty of others."
Again:-
"It is by medical men in the country taking up the subject experimentally, without previous knowledge of it, and having no theories to make good or defend, that the truth or falsehood of Mesmerism may be very speedily decided."
And again:-
"Instead of sneering and dogmatising about Mesmerism, I would earnestly entreat my medical brethren to put it to the test of personal experiment; for it is a thing to be done, and not talked of merely."
He encourages his professional brethren thus:-
"I have never seen, nor have any of my acquaintance ever seen, any bad effect accompany or follow operations performed during the magnetic sleep, of which the influence is essentially strengthening instead of being depressing. It fortifies the patient for the operation, secures him from pain during its performance, and facilitates his recovery, inasmuch as it admits of the wound being dressed without pain. It is the best and most prompt sedative when he suffers from local pains, for the system becomes very sensitive during convalescence from serious operations, and a few ‘passes` often act in a more speedy and efficacious manner in procuring sleep and alleviating pain than the most powerful narcotics."
To surgeons he says:-
"In surgery, the benefits of Mesmerism are not confined to the extinction of pain during an operation, but are of the greatest general and particular advantage in the after treatment of surgical diseases."
Again:-
     	"A vital agent which is capable of reducing a living man temporarily to the insensibility of a corpse, and without subsequent injury to the system, it is evident that such an influence possesses the essential conditions of a curative agent in the highest degree-the power of safety in its application."

Its benefit in therapeutics
"It appears that Mesmerism is likely to be as serviceable in the treatment of insanity as it is in general medicine and the practice of surgery. Dr. Kean, writing to me, says, 'Taking a hasty glance over the years 1847 and '48, I see that seventy-four patients were mesmerised, and that of these sixtyfour were discharged cured to all appearance, and I think it has been successful in every case of epilepsy.' "—Dr. Esdaile.
He says of Mesmerism, when it can be introduced in the treatment of medical cases:--
"It is extremely important in instantly extinguishing nervous pains, arresting convulsions, and aiding the natural resolution of inflammation by its anodyne and restorative powers; and, if it could be induced in the commencement of some of the most fatal diseases, it would probably arrest their progress, for it revolutionises the whole system, and every other constitutional affection is for the time suspended. In chronic inflammation it is a useful discutient, gently stimulating the nerves and capillary vessels of the part to more healthy action, and for this purpose local Mesmerism only is required. The chronic exhibition of Mesmerism, as a general tonic in diseases of debility, promises to be of great service, especially in functional derangement of the nervous system, and I am hopeful that we have at last got a direct nervous remedy, hitherto a desideratum in Medicine."
Of the sleep he writes:-
"Mesmeric sleep simulates perfectly sound natural sleep, and is more refreshing even if it has been resorted to for soothing pain or disturbance of the system, and can be had recourse to when it would be improper or useless to administer common narcotics, over which it has the advantage of not inducing a disagreable constitutional derangement after the specific influence has ceased. The restorative power of mesmeric sleep seems to depend upon an animal infusion of nervous vigour into the body, and when induced is a remedial agent; this may account for its superiority over common sleep."
Of the good effect of Mesmerism, when no sleep or coma is produced, Esdaile says:-
"The refreshment from sleep, often not otherwise to be procured, and the sedative influence of the trance would alone constitute Mesmerism a valuable medical agent. But it is from its power of stimulating the nervous system that a patient often draws the greatest benefit when all other remedies have failed, and to procure this effect neither sleep nor coma is usually necessary. The following cases will illustrate this double' action of Mesmerism:-
"Hunga, a Hindoo lad, aged eighteen, came to the hospital with the wrist of the right arm much enlarged and excessively tender; he cannot bear the least pressure on it. The entire hand, back and palm is so swollen (oedematous) that the bone cannot be felt, and there is not the slightest power of motion in the wrists and joints of the fingers. He has been leeched, blistered, etc., during the last six weeks at the Native Hospital, and without the least benefit. The part was ordered to be mesmerised for an hour daily. After three or four days the swelling of the hand began to decrease, the wrist became daily less tender, and at the end of six weeks he was dismissed cured, with the hand as fine as the other, and the motion of all the joints quite free-no other means having been used." 
In the following case, in which likewise no sleep was produced, the symptoms remind one of Mesmer's cure of Major Du Hussay. The first entry reads:-
"July 2nd, I847.-Moteelall Koonwur, a writer, aged 38, residing at Taltullah, in Calcutta, reports that on the 20th of April last, while taking his meal, he suddenly fell down in a fit, and lay insensible for two days. On the third day he was partially restored to his senses by general bleeding and leeching; since that, his body, except the right arm, the right side of the breast, and the left cheek, has become partially paralysed, and subject to a peculiar pricking sensation, which increases much in the evening and prevents him sleeping at night. He has been suffering from spasms in the hands; and the right cheek is so devoid of feeling that he does not consider it a part of his body. He feels and walks like an intoxicated person, and sees double. He cannot stir a foot without his tall staff"
He gradually and slowly improved; no remedy but Mesmerism being used, and the last reads:-
"August 3lst.- His vision is perfect, the pricking is gone, and he has returned to his duty." 
Of mesmerised water Esdaile says:-
"From multiplied experiments in six different hospitals, I should as soon doubt the power of fresh water to quench thirst as that of mesmerised water to induce sleep in persons who have already felt the mesmeric influence. When the sores of patients became foul, and the application of nitric acid became desirable, they often had a dose of mesmerised water as the speediest way of entrancing them, and their sores were then steeped in acid without a sign of sensibility. What more can I say ? "
He adds in a footnote:-
"Here also it will be said that smell and taste, suggestion and imagination, and no extraneous influence, produced the result. I repeat that the only experiments on which I rely were first trials; they were made at intervals of months and years, in six different hospitals; and my test experiments were thus conducted:- The mesmerised water was medicated with tincture of rhubarb, tincture of cardamons, aromatic spirits of ammonia, etc., and given to the patients at their usual time for taking physic, so that it was impossible to excite suspicion or expectation of anything unusual in them. The result was that a large proportion of susceptible subjects were so profoundly entranced on the first occasion that they might have been operated upon without pain, and as said in the text, their unhealthy sores were frequently burned with undiluted nitric acid without their feeling it when sleeping from the effects of mesmerised water. What more effectual precautions could be taken by those who deny any external influence I cannot in my simplicity imagine. And so in regard to mesmerising persons in another room while the attention was actually engaged; no possible precaution was omitted to prevent them from suspecting my intentions."
Its efficiency in insanity
Although Esdaile does not apparently attach much importance to his experiences with the insane, his success was very remarkable:-
"I having expressed my desire to the gentlemen comprising the committee of management of the Subscription Mesmeric Hospital to try the effect of Mesmerism upon the insane, they very liberally gave me funds to pay mesmerisers for six months, and Dr. Strong, Physician to the Calcutta Lunatic Asylum, very kindly permitted me to experiment on his patients. Being familiar with the soothing and strengthening effects of Mesmerism upon the debilitated and irritable nervous system of the sane, and believing that insanity, in general, originates in debility or functional derangement of the brain, I expected to find Mesmerism of benefit in the treatment of madness, like everything else that restores tone and regularity to the nervous system. But unfortunately the asylum here only contains the most unfavourable and disheartening subjects to work upon; the inmates being poor, friendless wretches, pulled up by the police on the highways, or confined by order of the magistrates for offences committed in paroxysms. As there was seldom any history of these cases, Esdaile could only guess at the cause or duration of the disease, and had very little expectation of any appreciable result. The patients were taken in the order of their names on the Register, only very old, palpably idiotic inmates being left out. In order to eliminate the chance that a lucid interval was the commencement of a spontaneous cure, or a cure effected by other means, the patients were mesmerized in the first instance when actually insane. At the end of six months the results were:--
			Cured apparently 	…	…	…	…	  8
			Cured and relapsed	…	…	…	…	  I
			No Change 	…	…	…	…	…	18
			Died	…	…	…	…	…	…	  I
			Under treatment (Much Improved)	…	…	  9
										37
He makes the following  very interesting  remarks about these cases:-
“As I anticipated, we found the insane as readily affected as the sane; many of the patients being thrown into the trance, although this was not desired, it not being thought necessary. Several of the men dated their recovery from a certain day, saying that after they awakened on such a day they felt their ‘heads lightened,' or their ‘hearts opened,' and their appearance and conduct corresponded with the statement."
Dr. Kean, of Moorshedabad Insane Asylum, Esdaile's friend, was more successful with lunatics. He tried Mesmerism on a blind man, and put him to sleep in half an hour; this so impressed him with the power of Animal Magnetism that he introduced it into his practice with the lunatics under his care, and from that time had no more trouble with them. The hospital attendants and guards were his operators. In the Lunatic Asylum of Berampore Dr. Kean treated seventy-four patients by Mesmerism during the years 1847 and 1848, and discharged sixty-four cured. It is probable that Dr. Kean also used what would now be called Suggestion, for the "Calcutta Register of Medical Science," in reporting these cases, remarks that the promise to do anything when mesmerised is carried out afterwards in the waking state, the subject feeling "an instinctive craving" to do it, not knowing why. Esdaile says of him:--
"Dr. Kean, of Berhampore, has for several years used Mesmerism very extensively in his large Lunatic Asylum with excellent curative effects, and finds it of great service in maintaining the quiet and discipline of his hospital. If this is not enough to give the coup de grace to the theory of suggestion and imagination as explanatory of the results obtained in my practise of Mesmerism, I will adduce instances of people being entranced from another room without their having the least suspicion of my intentions, and of a blind man being reduced on the first attempt to the most intense degree of mesmeric coma.”30
Esdaile's broadness of view
What probably saved Esdaile from growing narrow, and perhaps becoming hardened into the head of a School, was that as soon as he had satisfied himself that Mesmerism was a great reality he sent for all the books he could hear of that treated of the subject, most of which at that time were written in French or German; and it is the fact that he was well informed as to what others had done that gives a weight to his opinions that is wanting in the case of those who ignore or deny any experiences but those which agree with their own - the besetting sin of the modern Hypnotist. He says:-
"I now know (and I deplore my long ignorance) that the battle was fought and won before I was born by the truthful and benevolent Puysegur, Deleuze, and their companions, and that I, under the tropics, am only again demonstrating what they on the banks of the Seine had long ago established. The people on the continent have been familiar with both the good and the evil of Mesmerism for the last thirty years, while we in England are only now giving an unwilling ear to the expounders of a law of Nature which is as much a part of the human constitution as the processes of thought and digestion. It is to be hoped that on this subject our neighbours will no longer have reason to reproach our insular ignorance and presumption."
He was astonished at the "presumption" of those who, without experiment or enquiry, denied that which he believed to be so well authenticated, and which they, as he had done, could with ease personally prove to be facts. He wrote:-
"The reporters of the facts in question are, for the most part, men whose intellectual attainments in general are known to have been of a superior order, and whose moral character is elevated far above suspicion; men, in short, far more honourable and trustworthy than their wretched, chiefly anonymous caluminators.31 They will be found to be chiefly eminent physicians, such as Hufeland, physician to the king of Prussia;  Steiglitz, physician to the king of Hanover; Brandis, physician to the king of Denmark; Klein, physician to the king of Wirtemberg; Wienholt; Olbers, the Astronomer; Gmelin; Heineken; Bockman; Baehrens; Ennemmoser; Sprengel, author of a history of Medicine, and other learned works;  Haindorf;  Nolte; Spindler; Nasse; Nees von Esenbbeck; Passevant; Zierman; Heinroth; Leupoldt, &c. - Physiologists, such as Reil; Trevarinus; Autenrieth; Humboldt; Burdach; Eschenamayer; Kiezer, &c.- Naturalists, such as La Place; Cuvier; Oken.- Philosophers, such as Fichte; Schelling; Steffens; Baader; Hegel, &c.-Theologians, such as Schleiermacher; Mayer, &c. To these might be added a vast number of men of general science and celebrated literary characters. But it has been alleged that the evidence of these enlightened individuals is liable to discredit because, forsooth, they were engaged in investigating the phenomena of Animal Magnetism. Assuredly, this is a strange, and, we must take the liberty of saying, most preposterous objection. Pray, how are the facts of Nature to be discovered and appreciated unless by those who take an interest in investigating them?"
Esdaile’s belief in the "vital agent"
Esdaile, however, was too thoroughly grounded in his own experiences at first ever to rest his opinions on the authority of others, and what he gives us are his own experiences, and his own deductions from them. His experiences forced him to adopt the fluid theory as the only possible explanation of the effects produced by his method; but he did not investigate the psychic, and what might perhaps be called the cosmic aspects of Animal Magnetism. He did not deny the power of mind, or the purely psychic method, to cure disease; but, as he did not employ it, he does not theorise about it. He was a Hypnotist, if we use that name as a general term, but he was a specialist in Mesmerism, just as Liebeault and Bernheim are specialists in Suggestion; but his specialism differed in kind from that of our modern hypnotists, in that he did not think that what he did not know is not worth knowing. It is impossible to read any of his writings and not feel that he is transparently honest and straightforward, and that he therefore expects what he says to be believed. He tells us that what he relates "may be taken as correct, otherwise healthy senses, a plain, direct understanding, careful observation, long experience, and every precaution against deception are so many snares, and one might as well be a polypus as a human being." He says:-
"When one person is made the exclusive object of another's attention for certain lengths of time, surprising effects have ensued, which are now called the mesmeric phenomena. I can only imagine this to be the effect of an active upon a passive nervous system; the passive nerves and brain being invaded and occupied by the active, will-impelled nervous fluid of the agent."
Again:-
 	"From all I have seen, I cannot but believe that there is an influence of some kind that passes from one person to another, when one of the two is mesmerised in the way I have described; that, in fact, there is a virtual transfusion of some vital agent from one body to the other."
Of this vital or nervous energy, he says:-
"The mesmeriser can not only saturate the system of the patient, generally, with his own nervous fluid, but when his patient becomes very considerably under his influence can induce local determinations of the nervous energy to various parts, so as to place them, for the time, beyond the patient's volition, even while he retains his general consciousness. This will perhaps explain the phenomenon of local rigidity, and the insensibility of individual members of the body when the rest of the system is unaffected."
Like a great many magnetisers of every epoch, Esdaile was inclined to adopt an electrical explanation of the phenomena. He said:-
"In the actual state of science, we are entitled to say that a continual electro-magnetic action is going on in our organs by the contact of the arterial blood with its containing tissues-by its transfusion into venous blood which returns again to the lungs to combine with the oxygen of the air. We know that two different substances cannot come into contact without electricity being evolved, and that all chemical actions, whether analysis or synthesis, set at liberty a certain portion of electric fluid. If the electric fish can secrete electricity, and project it in the direction desired by its will, why should not men possess a modification of the same power? "
At all events he discards both imagination and fascination as inadequate to explain the effects produced by his method:-
"From the circumstances attending my first case, all my subsequent proceedings were determined by the conviction that the mesmeric influence, as it came under my observation, was a physical power, exerted by one animal over another, in certain circumstances and conditions of their respective systems; and I should as soon adopt the diabolical theory as a satisfactory solution of the problem, as attempt to account by the action of the imagination for what I have seen and done. It has been related that all my patients were mesmerised with their eyes closed, lying in bed, in a dark room, and that it was considered desirable that the patient should be totally ignorant of what was intended to be done; and I even stipulated with the mesmeric committee that the patients brought before them should be kept in as profound ignorance of our intentions as possible."32
Esdaile seems not to have had any of that kind of curiosity which prompts some eminent physiologists to fun red hot needles into monkeys' brains to see what they will do, and other eminent physiologists to cut down upon guinea-pigs' hearts to see how soon they will stop beating, and who call that kind of thing "science"; but he was not devoid of curiosity of a more philosophical kind; and he quotes, with approval, Lord Bacon's opinion:-
"The men who have looked deeply into the hidden nature of things, the transmissions from one body to another, and the magnetic forces, have agreed that the human mind can be placed in communication with other minds, and transmit them impressions.
But he was too busy, and had too high an opinion of the importance of Mesmerism to mankind as a healing agent, to pursue the subject as a great discovery needing scientific investigation. He says:-
"As I never have attempted, and never will attempt to Mesmerise people in health, I cannot speak from my own experience as to their mesmeric sensibility."
And again:-
"The practical rule is, never to mesmerise anyone except for medical purposes, and not to do more than is necessary for the cure of disease. If this is acted up to, I am not aware that Mesmerism has any dangers whatever."
Of the dangers of Mesmerism Esdaile says comparative little for a medical man; for we generally find a whole chapter on "The Dangers of Hypnotism or Mesmerism" in the works on the subject by medical men, a chapter which is apparently intended to act as a sign-board to warn off lay trespassers on their domain.33 Of one possible accident, he says:-
"Sometimes it happens that the subjects on being awakened open their eyes, and at the same moment recover all their faculties; but it is seen that the pupil is insensible to light; this they also become aware of; they know that their eyes are open, and that they ought to see, but do not. The thought fills them with horror, and with a fearful cry, they bury their faces in their hands, like persons struck blind by lightning; but this soon passes off, and the retina recovers its sensibility by a little rubbing of the eye."
The danger here lies in the shock to the patient, which Esdaile considered the real inconvenience of this accident, and mesmerised subjects are liable to shock in other ways. The danger of shock, together with that of the “mesmeric disease" or falling spontaneously into the mesmeric state, are the only dangers which he seems to have recognised. 
How Esdaile used gaze 
Although Esdaile used "gazing" finding it to have a powerful mesmeric effect, this was neither the "fascination" of the modern hypnotist, nor the "fixing" of the eye of other mesmerists, for the subject did not return his gaze. He tried a great many experiments to find out at what distance the passes and gazing would affect his subjects. He found marked effects up to a distance of 90 or 100 feet in the case of the passes; but he does not seem to think that gazing acts so well at such long distances; he, however, was shortsighted, which may have made some difference. He says:”The experiments have been so numerous and unexceptionable, that I must consider the transmission of the mesmeric fluid through a large body of air to be incontestably proved." He believed that since air is permeable, the permeability of walls and other substances is to be expected. "In coming to this conclusion," he again says," I rely on first trials." 
One of his experiments, for example, was with Janoo, a prisoner who had a cataract in each eye, and could barely distinguish light from darkness. He mesmerised Janoo in ten minutes, he not understanding what was being done.
Next day he mesmerised him through a window while he was eating his dinner, suspecting nothing. On the following day he got Janoo to lie down with his face to the wall, and employed one of his assistants to engage him in conversation while he went to the other side of the wall and mesmerized him through it. After two ineffectual trials of a few minutes each, Janoo, who suspected nothing, fell into the mesmeric sleep. After this he mesmerised him in five minutes at a distance of thirty yards. By that time Janoo had become sufficiently accustomed to the influence of Mesmerism to be tried with mesmerized water, and Esdaile sent some of it to him by the attendant who usually took him medicine, and who gave it to him as if it were an ordinary dose. In two minutes he was deeply entranced. A peculiarity of Mesmerism in Janoo's case was that when the effect was produced he fell down suddenly, as if shot. Esdaile tried experiments to find out whether the "fluid" would affect material substances; for instance, whether it could be deposited upon them, as many magnetisers thought it could. He found that he could in this way paralyse subjects who had no knowledge of what he had done; for example:- 
"I have requested visitors at the hospital to choose any tile in the floor upon which they wished a patient, who was out of doors at the time,   to  be  fixed. I then pressed my hand  upon the selected square tile and breathed upon it, leaving my visitors to catch  their  man in  their  own way; and they had generally to send for me to relieve the man from the trap."
Mesmerism known to the Faquirs of India
Esdaile was not a little surprised to find that Mesmerism, although new to the mass of the people of India, was known to, and practised by, their "holy men," by whom it was intimately associated with religion. He says:-
"’Dr. Davidson, late resident at Jaypore in Upper India, visiting the mesmeric hospital in Calcutta, and seeing the native mesmerisers stroking and breathing upon the patients, said, ’I now understand what the Jar-phoonk of Upper India is; it is nothing but Mesmerism.' Being requested to explain himself, he continued,  ‘Many of my people, after I had tried to cure them of their different complaints in vain, used to ask leave of absence for several weeks, in order to be treated by the ]adoo-walla, and  to  my  great  surprise  they   often returned  to  me  quite cured  in  a  short  time;   and  in  reply  to  my  enquiries  as  to  how they  had  been  treated,  they  all  said  that  they  had  gone through a  process  called  Jar-phoonk;  the  meaning  of  which  I  could  never make   out. But I see it now before me, in the continuous stroking and breathing of your mesmerisers. Jarna means to stroke in Hindoostanee, and phoonkna to breathe, which very exactly describes your mesmeric process.'"
Esdaile also quotes from the  “Zoist" the curious experience of Colonel Bagnold, with which my notice of this great mesmeriser  must  end:-
"A poor young Hindoo female had fallen into a miserable state of health, the effects of great privation during the previous great famine, was epileptic, and subject to occasional fits of insanity. A ‘vergraggey' — mendicant devotee—offered to undertake her cure by performing a religious ceremony, or 'mundur'; and as the family lived in the same building with me and my military detachment, and had no objection to my being present, I attended. The man commenced with the usual Hindoo offerings, such as burning frankincense, breaking a cocoa-nut, and invoking some god, particularly Seetaram, and then seated the woman on the ground with her back and head against the wall, and took from his long matted hair a string of large sandal-wood beads, which he held up before her eyes and directed her to look at; then made passes with it from her head downwards, occasionally stopping to breathe upon or lay his hands upon her chest. She soon became drowsy, and appeared to sleep, when a handful of wood ashes were called for, waved over her head, thrown in the air, and the charm was pronounced complete. He then retired to a little distance and sat counting his beads, but with his eyes attentively fixed on her, and muttering as if in prayer. In about half an hour he started up, snapped his fingers, called out loudly ‘Seetaram!' which was loudly responded to by the Hindoos present, took his patient by the hand and told her to go about her family work. To the astonishment of her family, and all present, she obeyed, walked direct to the hand-mill and began grinding corn for the evening meal-a work I am certain she had been incapable of performing for months. Looking upon this as mere priestly deceptions, I declined being present at any future visits. However, her mother, her brother, and several men of the detachment assured me afterwards that the man not only put her asleep whenever he came, but made her speak during that sleep, described her disease, and what would cure it. I laughed at the poor people as fools, and abused the man as a knave. But his mild, good-humoured rebuke is often now present to my mind. 'Youth, the hair on your chin is incomplete; by the time it is like mine you will think differently of me.' The woman recovered, and rapidly."

With Esdaile, pure Mesmerism of the school of de Puysegur, as modified by Dupotet and Lafontaine, may be said to have reached a very high point. 
Dr. Esdaile's remarkable works are not the only records of capital operations performed without pain to the patient with the help of mesmerism. A paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, in 1842, and published as an independent pamphlet, gives full details concerning a case in which Mr. Ward, a surgeon attached to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, had, about that time, amputated a man's leg above the knee while he, the patient, remained completely unconscious of the operation in a mesmeric sleep, put upon him by the influence of Mr. Topham, a barrister interested in the practice of Mesmer.
In France magnetism was developed further than in England.
After Dupotet, the Durvilles (Hector, Gaston, André),  continued this school and merged it with the findings of Reichenbach concerning polarities. This merging although interesting, was criticized by others34. 
In any case it continues until today such as in modern biomagnetism which has nevertheless detached itself even more from classical hypnotic techniques. 
What are deep hypnotic states useful for?	2
Analgesia, hypnotic anesthesia and deep states	5
Catalepsy and deep states	6
Automatic movement	7
Deep states as a way to access the “implicate order”	8
Fascination and deep hypnotic states	8
The development of higher phenomena	9
Entanglement, hyperesthesia and deep states	14
Sensitivity and deeper states	14
A simple method for somnambulism	15
Let the state develop and enfold naturally.	17
Trance Termination	17
Verbal Methods based on words	18
Esdaile State as practiced by Dave Elman	19
Hypnosleep (Dave Elman)	20
Hypnosleep and “Deep Somnambulism”	20
Locating Hypnosleep in the hypnosis depth scale	21
From waking to the somnambulistic state	21
Achieving somnambulism through the help of suggestions.	22
Somnambulism and the Esdaile state	22
Hypnosleep: The Technique	24
Reaccessing the state	27
Trance Termination	27
Pitfalls of the subconscious mind language	28
Hypnosleep – non verbal method	31
Fascination and instant Somnambulism	32
Trascendental hypnotism and somnambulism	32
Some effects:	38
Method 2	38
Deep states as executed by ancient magnetizers and hypnotists.	42
Puysegur and his mysterious discovery	42
Puysegur technique	42
Changes in theory	43
Puysegur’s discovery of somnambulism	44
Healing through enlargement of faculties	51
De Puysegur “Artificial somnambulism”	52
Magnetism as a healing treatment working on everybody	56
Magnetism on Animals	56
Developing the Somnambulistic Faculties.	57
Magnetic Ecstasy	58
The theories of Puysegur	60
James Esdaile.	68
His wonderful success in India	69
His first experience, and what it taught him	70
Opposition and triumph	70
Esdaile’s method of mesmerising 	78
He thought that Mesmerism should be known to everyone	86
Its benefit in therapeutics	89
Its efficiency in insanity	93
Esdaile's broadness of view	96
Esdaile’s belief in the "vital agent"	98
How Esdaile used gaze 	104
Mesmerism known to the Faquirs of India	106
