Dr. Marco Paret
	

Magnetism and
Energetic Ascent

Exercises and techniques



ISBN13 978-0-935410-29-7

© 2011 – International Academic Productions

FOREWORD
Why did we create this book?
This is the companion book of “The Mystery of time”. Its goal is to bring you to higner level of magnetism and awareness.
Presence is the key.
At school, no one teaches how to develop man. The knowledge that man lies at the hub of the universe, which has been retrieved by quantistic mechanics, already lay at the foundation of renaissance philosophy. Even prior to it, it was known by the most insightful intellects who emerged in the ancient Greco-Roman civilization, and by the ancient Egyptians, only for it to be subsequently put aside. 
The desire to proceed further and “climb up the energetic level” is intrinsic to every man. In order for this growth to become effective, however, it must be embarked upon in a state of real PRESENCE through Reintegration. A new condition will then arise: what was first a mere concept will eventually become the presence of a force, and a state of liberation will be reached, on which  a new life may be built.
According to tradition, the first result will be the “First Degree Medicine”. In other words, a natural healing ability. In life, coincidences and synchronicity then record an increased incidence. 
It is however possible to push the elevation and reintegration of the “homo totus”, of  the total man, even further, until both reach a sublime level wherein man might truly become aware of the objective (and quantic) reality of the world as well.
Genius, creativity, are also expressions of such a higher state.
The result of reaching such higher stages of presence and  “energetic superabundance” is also perceived when one is dealing with other people.
Consciousness and Reintegration
Why and what should one reintegrate?
The basic key to the power of Magnetism and the  Energetic Ascent of man is “reintegration”. 
Why reintegration? The answer thereto lies in another question: How far are we actually de-integrated? How many times are we unable to accomplish what we would like to do? How much are we truly present to ourselves in the course of a day? How many times do unwanted thoughts and ideas cross our mind? On how many occasions we are not really ourselves? 
In actual fact, human freedom (the so-called free choice) exists, but is very much limited. Usually, man is essentially irresponsible so long as he is not conscious. 
The key to everything, to be able “to ride one’s own destiny”, is to be conscious. This entails consciousness of one’s being. There is a close link between the concept of objective consciousness and what happens to man as a result of certain techniques of hypnosis. As stated by Ouspensky: "An ordinary man might be artificially led to a state of objective consciousness, and subsequently taken back to his usual being. He will, however, fail to remember anything, and will merely think that he has lost consciousness for a period of time." 
The state of objective consciousness represents a natural state: "Such a state of consciousness is a natural right of man per se, and the fact that man might be divested of such right is only due to the fact that his conditions are abnormal. Without exaggerating at all, one might well say that in the current age such a state of consciousness only flashes through during brief and rare moments, and that it cannot possibly be perpetuated without a specific training. With regard to the majority of people, the main obstacle on the road to self-awareness is that they believe they are actually endowed with such quality....". A first essential step in this way is to learn how to eliminate useless thoughts. 
Through such an initial step we are going to accomplish a lot, since we will push aside what clutters us. By removing thoughts, what is left shall consist purely in our own selves, our consciousness. The removal of useless thoughts, in fact, marks the beginning of the road to self-consciousness.  
The desire to follow this path of reintegration means the attainment of a greater self-control and more power in the various situations. It is a path which can only be created by an inner choice and an urge a person feels inside his being. 
Being ourselves more, in fact, is in itself a choice. 
Therefore, the essential thing for every person is to reach a state allowing us to choose, decide, and act for the sake of realizing our goals. 
Exercise 1: I am
Through this exercise, we simply try to acquire awareness of our own being. We pronounce the words “I am” to ourselves. What feeling is generated in your body?  Acceptance of that “I am”, by detaching it from all the ideas which are connected to it and yet do not belong to it, is the basis for developing the entire spectrum of one’s capabilities. Sometimes, in fact, we say “I am a doctor”, “I am a student”, and so on, yet our true reality antedates any term which we can insert into the verbal phrase “I am”. 
This exercise, which is exclusively linguistic in character, will ready you for the next stage, where even the linguistic dimension of life is going to be transcended. Presence is not just a philosophical attitude: It is a practical reality. It is a technically ascertainable mental state which is characterized by a different relationship with the reality that surrounds us, with our own selves, and with time. Presence is something that might be attained through a series of exercises which facilitate attention and presence in every single moment of life. Our goal is the direct consciousness of the Universe, which is also referred to by the name "objective consciousness", and which is the only true freedom. The ordinary man loves or does not love based on his mental illusions, without realizing that his feelings are linked to external influences or to the state of wealth of his organs. We are thus dealing with a practical philosophy which has the ability to lead a person to a higher state of consciousness, irrespective of his religious affiliation. There is a close relation between the observations by current quantistic physics and the concepts evolved by the technique of presencing. 
The Presence, in fact, helps us overcome the dichotomy between “thought” and “being”. 
We can arrive at a more elevated state of consciousness in which we might be able to be aware of the flow of our thoughts while simultaneously “being”. 
Usually that does not take place. We are inclined not to be conscious of the fact that we are forever engaged in thinking. The constant flow of thoughts crossing our minds leaves little room for inner quiet and for our own selves. 
Too often we display a tendency to react rather than to act, and we thus let ourselves be carried along by the strong current of life. 
The techniques we teach represent a path we can tread to learn how to be ourselves, as well as to rediscover where our inward power is truly located. 
The goal is to be your own selves ... By observing yourselves in daily life with a sense of concern, with the intention of understanding instead of judging, plunged in a state of complete axxeptance of whatever might emerge into view, accepting it, that is, for the mere reason that it is there, you will encourage what lies in your depths to surface and, thereby, you will enrich your life and your consciousness by the energies that the profound part of your selves encompasses. This is the great work of consciousness: Removing obstacles and releasing energies by grasping the nature of life and the nature of the mind. Intelligence is the gate to freedom, and reawakened attention is the progenitor of intelligence.
Nisargadatta Maharaj, “I Am That”.

Exercises on the focal point 
Exercise 2: The focal point.
You should imagine a point, a small point in front of you. Make it as small as possible, and then concentrate on it for some ten seconds. We are going to call this a “focal point”. It denotes the direction taken by attention. In order to obtain optimal results, you will need to be able to steer your attention.
Exercise 3: Projection of the point.
Straight after the previous exercise, you should look at yourself in a mirror and imagine that you are projecting the focal point of your attention onto the image in the mirror, in the area lying between the eyes. You should then simply say, “I am now going to embark on the path to my own self”. Close your eyes, move away from the mirror, and do not mull over that any longer until the next day comes.
Exercise 4: Presence by the mirror.
You should simply gaze at yourself in the mirror without blinking your eyes. Fix your gaze on the space between your eyes. By doing this exercise, you will notice a number of different sensations, and in some moments you will attain self-consciousness. 
Exercise 5: Constant awareness of one part of the body. 
Presence means: to be in the present. Therefore we need a focal point in the present moment.
You should keep constant awareness of one part of your body (e.g. one hand). Over a period of time, this exercise might even be escorted by directing attention to one foot (possibly the one by the other side of the body). The aim of these exercises is to start “remembering our own selves”. The aim is the further development of Presence as a way to freedom. 
Another interesting exercise is to be conscious of breathing while you are eating.
Exercise 6:Consciousness of breathing while eating.
You should now extend your awareness to your breathing as you eat. You ought to be conscious of the fact that you are busy eating. 
Exercise  7: Awareness of talking.
You must now extend your awareness further and let it encompass your talk. Listen to yourselves talking while being conscious of the fact that you are engaged in a speech. This exercise has an effect which is also discernible by the people around you. If you speak WHILE LISTENING TO YOUR OWN SELVES TALKING, your voice will become clearer and neater.
THE GENERAL IDEA OF AUTOMATIC RESPONSES BEING SUBORDINATED TO AWARENESS. – The process needed to develop self-consciousness also passes through the attainment of an alignment between decisions that are taken and resultant actions. A simple example shall clearly disclose the game played by these two centers of personality:  A student sits down in order to study. Outside, the sun is shining and, from a half-open window, the echo of thousands of joyous noises reaches him together with delightful buffets of fresh air. Our youngster is tempted to shelve aside the annoying book and go out to meet his friends. However, this motion generated by his automatic side, this « impulse», clashes with a resistence on the part of the youth: The exam, with its most heavy program, is drawing close; only an assiduous engrossment in study will enable him to assimilate such program in full. At that point, an “internal struggle” will commence, one on which the student’s behaviour is going to depend. If we make a methodical effort, firstly to dominate the insignificant impulses, and then to do so in respect of impulses of greater importance, we are going to gradually ensure for ourselves the swift and easy subordination of automatic comportment to the representations put forward by reflection, and to the development of a central principle in man. It is thus an issue of regaining ourselves, as well as gestures and movements which are otherwise going to be piloted by our unconscious self.  

REMEMBERING OURSELVES Achieving control over one’s activities is a stage in the process of man’s reawakening to his own self. It is a very straight road, the aim of which is to soar above automatic conduct and unconsciousness, so as to reach higher levels in which we might have the totality of our conscious and inconscious possibilities at our disposal. Gurdjeff used to speak of the need “to remember ourselves”. Quite often, we are not present to our own selves. An example that illustrates such truth is when we promise something, either to ourselves or to others, and we then forget our promise only a few seconds later. 
Technically speaking, we fall into a state of “trance”, that is, into an automatic way of reacting. Take for instance a woman who makes a promise to herself that she is no longer going to indulge herself in over-eating. Shortly thereafter, she passes by a confectionery, walks in, and purchases a chocolate sweet which she proceeds to partake of at once. From a technical point of view, we say that this woman has suffered: 
1. An amnesia of the promise she made to herself, and
2. a regression to a moment in her childhood when the chocolate sweet represented for her a source of great satisfaction.  
In other words, this woman has lived in a trance without being “present to herself”.
Hypnotherapy might prove of some help in these cases, since we implement, in a controlled fashion, a trance which normally occurs in an uncontrolled form. 
Hypnotherapy is however a partial remedy: We must rather learn to be outside a trance in each and every moment of our life. Only then will reality appear to us to be more lively, whereupon we become capable of truly taking decisions.  
We usually let ourselves be “swallowed by the mental side”, that is, be dictated to by worries, thoughts, reflections and automatic responses. Yet there is a deeper basis out there. What we term “reawakening” is the highest degree of consciousness which man could reach. It is a state in which we perceive reality as it truly is. 
When Ouspenski intended to indicate the state in which man begins, at least to a small extent, to “remember himself”, he resorted to the simile of the way we feel in the course of a trip to a foreign country. In such a situation, in fact, we are normally more present than we are in our own country: Sounds appear to us to be neater, and feelings to be truer. We are more ourselves because the new environment stimulates our sensory alertness.  That is what is meant when one says that man uses only one part of his potential. 
It is also precisely for this reason that reawakening is an evolutionary road which can lead very far. In the first stage of such journey, starting to set out on one’s way might even represent the foundation of a cure for the problems of the spirit. Going ahead with it is a transformation of one’s own being which facilitates living and confers greater immediacy on it, due to the fact that living is imbued with greater consciousness. Another thing which increases, of course, is personal power, as it leads man to the sole point where the source of such power is fully present: His own self. 
The only way of attaining the result 
The only way is the reawakening of consciousness. Notwithstanding the fact that, in the course of the following pages, various methods based on energy and aimed at elevating one’s consciousness are going to be described, attention and vigilance on their own, if sustained with perseverance, are able to allow one to reach the highest degrees. Already the exercises which have been propounded so far, if persistently carried out on an ongoing basis, might lead to the ultimate result.1”.



The symbol here above is termed “the wheel’s fire”, which, according to the ancient alchemists, ought to burn “from the beginning to the end of the work”.
Automatically, owing to the fire of uninterrupted attention, the ego melts away and true reality emerges. The attention which is focused on the body begins to empower us to differentiate between external realities, thoughts and emotions, and what is truly real is brought into relief. It is also in this light that one might read the evangelical sentence “blessed are the children, since theirs will be the Kingdom of the Heavens”. Indeed, the child who has yet to create his own reality and his own ego lives time differently from an adult, and is situated “outside time”. In an analogous way, we might recover such primal dimension and “exit time” through the medium of persistent attention to the now. Alternatively, if you prefer, you might quote the Alexandrine philosopher Origen: “What matters to us is not to ascertain the purpose of life, but rather the value of life. If my life is nothing more than the fleeting glow of a firefly, or the explosion of an aerolite in the darkness of a summer night, I would not care whether night is eternal. I would only be concerned with the moment of my own transit. There is no philosophical doubt as to the fact that, if I represent nothing to the others, I am for myself the most important being in existence. I am reality. What I am thus searching for is not a universal meaning, but a personal meaning attaching to my own actions, or, said it better, personality and universality are merged since I am the universe”.


Man in the form of a cross (being an allusion to the four elements)
Beginning the Energetic Ascent
If you have followed the book up to this point, and you have carried out and, even more importantly, “understood” the former exercises, you will have found that in presence lies the solution to your compulsions and to the things which “fetter” you to appearances. You will have likewise recorded a major accomplishment, which is symbolized by you starting to be in the now and acquiring a balance, without the need for you to project yourselves outwardly. At the same time, your new state will have begun to manifest a positive character, one which is at one with reality and centralized. 
You will have become enough for yourselves, and in touch with your authentic essence. Dante, too, knew this stage of the journey, and used to depict it through the symbol of “perfect happiness” (Matelda) and the Eden. 

The highest good, that only in itself delights,
makes man good and fine, and this site
Gave him a pledge of eternal peace.
(Pur. Canto XXVIII, 91-93)

According to tradition, the person who has completed all phases of sublimation is in possession of the “First Degree Medicine”. In other words, he has a natural healing ability. In life, coincidences and synchronicity then record an increased incidence. 
It is however possible to push the elevation and reintegration of the “homo totus”, of  the total man, even further, until both reach a sublime level wherein man might truly become aware of the objective (and quantic) reality of the world as well.
In order to attain this subsequent degree of elevation, it is necessary to “transcend the limits of the body”2 and rise through an additional series of energetic processes. This theme is found both in the Western and the Eastern traditions.3 The departure point of Dante’s ascent is the mountain located in the Purgatory, at the summit of which Eden is perched, only for him to further climb upwardly after reaching such point.  
This ascent is synonymous with a total modification of the way time is perceived. It is also a form of surrendering the old “person”, as well as physicality itself (albeit without negating the latter).  
Phoenix and man
The symbol of such a rebirth is the Phoenix which comes back to life after it has been burnt to ashes.4 Though physically reborn, this rebirth places it in a different  dimension. What we are dealing with, therefore, is the actualization of the “palingenesis” (rebirth) of man.  This new phase is symbolically termed “entrenching sulphur”. Sulphur in fact denotes the spiritual principle, which means therefore that the state of presence becomes constant and present, firmly established beyond the ego, which by now has already been transcended.  We thus unveil the meaning of the symbol reproduced beside5, which portrays the image of the phoenix lying inside the symbol of consciousness (sulphur = I)6.7
Non-local Effects
The only reality is the now moment and everything is there. Naturally, developing presence along the path of energetic elevation, we likewise discern the accomplishment of an ever increasing series of “non-local” phenomenologies, such as visions, the development of a sixth sense,  hearing, etc. That is so due to the fact that, by accessing the higher and quantic reality, one transcends the space-time dimension created by the senses and by the mind.
Man in his maximum expansion, dimension-wise, having regard to all his different phases (Every  constellation denotes a developmental stage)
Increase of energy – “Aerial” level (?) 



Secrets for reawakening one’s nervous potential 
Man as the fundament of perceptions


This official culture of ours is only a poor thing. At school, no one teaches how to develop man. The knowledge that man lies at the hub of the universe, which has been retrieved by quantistic mechanics, already lay at the foundation of renaissance philosophy. Even prior to it, it was known by the most insightful intellects who emerged in the ancient Greco-Roman civilization, and by the ancient Egyptians, only for it to be subsequently put aside. It is in fact solely our own body, and its inner dynamics of balance, which form the basis for the space-time experience that we call “reality”. Even if, for instance, we feel as if we are living in a three-dimensional world, modern quantistic physics teaches us that that is not true. 
It is our peculiar neurology that perceives it as such. The senses emit messages which our mind then  interprets. 8
Reality is procreated by our vital energy. We might draw a simile with a computer screen. “Things”, fragmented “images”, appear on such screen, but, in actual fact, these are nothing other than the very same electrical energy of the computer which arouses some points on the screen as opposed to others. The screen is exactly the same throughout. 
In man, the screen is represented by our physiology which interprets data that come from outside, and then creates our images. It is our vision of daily “trance”, the ego, which makes us perceive our life events as mutually disjointed units. This ego decides that certain things exist while others do not. It focuses attention exclusively on some of these things. It wants to play the part of the owner of the house. Yet, the moment the ego is transcended, the vision becomes enlarged, whereupon even other entities, which had been previously overlooked, emerge into view.  
The desire to proceed further and “climb up the energetic level” is intrinsic to every man. In order for this growth to become effective, however, it must be embarked upon in a state of PRESENCE.
“… In the lower degrees, (the energetic increase unaccompanied by self-presencing) metamorphoses into detrimental urges, as that energy surplus mainly inclines towards compulsions. At a higher level, however,  it bears the meaning of a true growth. The reason for it lies in the attracting call of eternity which is found in every human being. Eternity means nothing other than the infinite ... This infinite might be legitimately seen as the dimension of immediate “mysticism”. Every one experiences such a desire: The engineer craves for the infinite of physical possibilities, while the musician yearns to render music ever more sublime. The deep cause of such immediate mysticism is the desire for the infinite, which, once it gets expressed, turns into a sense of excess. In the event that such sense manages to preserve its free, impulsive character, it has an equal capacity of causing the most extreme destruction and the highest form of evolution. What we are dealing with here is a force which society has rendered impotent by means of mutilations called “considerations of social wellbeing”, that is, the extirpation of whatever might be an irritant to society, though it might well represent a wholesome force as far as the individual is concerned. 
… Humanity is in the grip of mediocrity. What would happen to it if “excessive” beings, the geniuses who rule mankind and infuse ideas into it, were not born now and then?9.  What is excessive easily leads to physical pathologies, because few beings are equipped with the ability to subjugate this force which, when dominated, is transformed into enlightenment and genius, as it guides one to light and self-sacrifice, to a conscious self-confusion.10  “There are essentially two paths: One leads to negation, whereas the other convoys us to the light and reflects our spontaneous momentum capable of linking us to the living cosmos. The latter way is the path of truth.”11
Genius, creativity, are expressions of such a higher state.
According to the ancient scholastic teachings, what corresponds to such higher stages is “intelligence”, that is, the defining attribute of what accords with vision, intuition, and penetration.12
The result of reaching such higher stages of “energetic superabundance” is also perceived when one is dealing with other people. 
The person who lets energy get dispersed puts himself in a position of dependence on the environment. As one is endowed with less strength to create his own mental images, in fact, there is normally a tendency to be “absorbed”, in which case a person ends up borrowing somebody else’s ideas. 
In fact, thought that is power is the thought of a free mind. As long as you are preoccupied only with your person and your limited individualistic “Self”, with all its immediate interests and passions; as long as you experience other beings and things as an external and foreign reality and are enslaved, in confronting them, to instinctive reactions and absorbed by them  – until them you are not free and the power of your mind remains limited just as your body is limited in space.
The energetic elevation is the secret behind the development of a new quality, which is markedly useful in interpersonal relationships: Personal magnetism. It consists in the ability to exercise an inflence on the surrounding environment.13 

The ancient symbol laid out here above shows a force which speads from the matter in an upward direction.14

Taking practically by the exercises that have been mentioned before makes you begin to notice the fact that, by you learning how to control your selves, heedfully reflect upon the images you yourselves create, and maintain a perfect sense of self-confidence in the presence of whoever might happen to be there, you will end up having an impact on the people you are dealing with. A glance which expresses resolution, a precise speech which is articulated in a wise manner, a simultaneously calm and energic attitude, all leave a very substantial mark on others. By increasing one’s energy, the impact thus exercised might be further augmented, until it reaches a genuine phsychological influence which is carried to its most extreme limit. 
Energy and Personal Magnetism, Influence and Vitality
Developing one’s magnetism means to achieve ownership over one’s own life. The one who embarks on the road of volition learns to implement whatever he has planned in an active way, fully attentive to what he is engaged in, and moving at the expected moment onto his next occupation. In so doing he maintains, throughout the stages of his work, a homogeneous line which gives expression to one and the same volition. It is basically independent of circumstances. Developing ourselves in this direction thus bears the import of becoming the owners of our own destiny. This, in the ancient technical lexicon, was verbalized by making reference to the fact that we are the children of a monarch and thus rightfully entitled to rule. If you carry out what is mentioned in this work by paying attention to the higher principles, as opposed to treating them as mere physical exercises, all the practices unveiled in this book will accordingly turn, firstly, into an inducement to mental initiative, and, secondly, to a feeling of security, of “power”, not just power over other people, but even over our own selves: One will then attain the consciousness of being able to exercise one’s own will.  
Exercise 8 Getting up - sitting.
Starting from a seated position, you must then voluntarily get up, meaning that within your spirit you should have a clear idea of the fact that you are not rising up as a result of a mere mechanical motion on the part of your legs, but pursuant to a voluntary instruction issued by the brain, to a decision, that is, of your free choice.  You should then implement the opposite exercise and thus sit down after you had been standing. Make the exercise more complex by standing up on the bed and then lying down on it. 
Esercise 9 Action
You should identify an action which, at first, is extremely simple and brief, whereupon you carry it out with the clear mental understanding that that is happening because of a specific purpose which your own will has determined in advance. You might, for instance, deliberate to move to another room without any specific objective to pursue. You might walk down to the courtyard, put on a cloak, or else approach a shelf and pick out a specific book. The task envisaged by this exercise – it ought to be stressed again – does not consist in carrying out the action per se, but in doing so while you focus only that thought on it, to the exclusion of any other thought.  
It is at this stage that the voluntary man is born. The loud tone additionally shows strong results even from a psycho-emotional perspective, and can thus assist you in overcoming your fears. 
Step by step, your self-confidence becomes an ongoing reality, and the parasitical ideas are subjugated. That is escorted by the subjugation of the self-dissolving emotional states and the sensory urgings. You will not need, at that stage, to resort to many specific techniques: Problems will disappear on their own. Self-domination will escalate, and, soon, one’s senses, sensibility and intellect will orientate themselves toward the greatest satisfaction. Thereupon, one becomes able to “make things happen”. 
Exercise 10 The hand. 
In order for you to develop an “intuitive understanding” of what we have stated, you should stretch your hand and mentally focus your thought on your hand closing up bit by bit. If concentration is properly maintained, the fingers will start bending, at first imperceptibly, and then at an increasingly faster pace, until their fingertips, by joining the palms of your hands, will ultimately cause you pain. At that point, you should enact the opposite concentration, in other words by imagining that your hand is gradually opening up.
Once you have become apt to fix your physchological energy upon a specific image, the power of your will will act as a regulatory element, as well as an element capable of healing or anesthetizing the physical organs, as previously explained by us. 
What happens, even by becoming one with energy, therefore includes the natural development of therapeutic influence, and that precisely because this human development is the equivalent of what the ancient people had termed “First Degree Medicine”.
The magnetic influence might then be able to be exercised in three fundamental ways, which can be possibly related to the three basic principles: The hand (magnetism, akin to modern pranotherapy and linked to the principle  G), the eye (the appeal of the glance, which is connected to the principle D),  and the voice (a spellbinding voice related to the principle A).15
Energy and an increase in Cosciousness
The vital energy is also key to expand one’s mental potency.  
The applicable formula is: Vital energy ? Mental power.
A greater mental power might be of help, to those who have carried out the previous exercises, in understanding that we are not simply confined to becoming, i.e. that linear time represents but one part of reality. What this basically signifies is that we can discover a new dimension which empowers one to be in two different times at the same moment:  absolute time and linear time. 
We ought to clarify at this stage that developing one’s vitality has nothing to do with muscular vigour or with the robustness of one’s physical temperament. These are desiderable conditions, as frequent sicknesses and muscular weakness represent causative agents of an inferior status. Nevertheless, a 70-year old person might have a greater vitality than one in his twenties, since true vitality is a surplus, and is akin to having surplus money in the bank which you are freely able to spend. What we are stating, in fact, is that authentic self-awareness and true volition have their roots in a surplus of nervous  tension, that is, neuric strength.
What is it, then, that we should do? We should learn to create and store away, to accumulate tension within a balanced organism. This state is termed “vital erethism”. We find ourselves in a state of vital erethism whenever our nervous potential is high, in other words, whenever we have some energy needing to be released. We have, for example. a gastric erethism when the papillae of our stomach are stimulated by the juices that demand that food should be elaborated; put it bluntly, when we lack appetite. We feel well when, in our “balance sheet”, we notice a reserve of energy, exactly the way a commercial balance sheet is in a florid state if it records an active surplus. 
We experience muscular erethism when our muscular fibre, well fed and rested, demands to practice; when, for example, legs set into motion almost by themselves, when we would gladly jump four times, race a bit or do one somersault. Basically, therefore, erethism is always the consequence of a surplus of available strength. 
Whoever has no hopeful expectation of this surplus in order to carry out a voluntary physiological action, not only deprives himself of all the joys arising out of the fulfillment of a physiological need, and thus, essentially deprives himself of optimism, which signifies a satisfied need; but, in addition to that, he also compels his body to submit to a state of muscular and nervous exhaustion having the effect of draining out all his energies. He thus walks speedily toward chronic disease and nervous senility.  
The true essence of the Epicurean philosophy was not the realization of a state of self-gratification, but rather the art of of paving the way for enjoyment, that is, the totality of normative precepts which ought to be observed so as to learn how to taste enjoyment, understand and savour joy. The first such norm is to realize the fact that the true source of pleasure lies inside us. If that is comprehended, one could even resolve on practicing abstinence, voluntary lent, or fasting, and accept all of them not for the sake of self-mortification, but rather with a view to a subsequent enjoyment. 
Erethism, or put it differently, one’s nervous potential, understood in the aforesaid sense as opposed to be pushed to such an extreme as to produce some nervous monomania, is the true source from which an inclination to exercising one’s will, acting and truly implementing those specific functions that are peculiar to a healthy and living individual, ultimately gush forth. 
It is this nervous potential which might be transmitted to another person and be vested with therapeutic potentialities as well. 
Exercise 11: Absorbing vitality from the universe
You ought to say to yourselves, ‘I absorb energy from the universe I am connected to.’ Select a slow rhythm of inhaling and exhaling, and simultaneously lead the mind to the idea of absorbing vitality from the universe, feeling it increasing.
Increased energy and expansion of the sense of time 
One way of generating and stabilizing lofty states of consciousness is, therefore, the way of intensifying our inner energy by developing all its different forms, harmonizing the way it is spread, and blocking the channels through which we dissipate mental energy. This will ensure that the mind no longer has to confront the problem of needing to save energy and rely on automatic mechanisms. In that manner, moreover, we would no longer need to save when we receive a cheque showing a large sum with several zeros. 16 The result of that would be our acquisition of the chance to perceive the reality of the surrounding environment, which reality normally eludes us. Once we become able to draw a greater deal of information from the environment around us, one of the spin-offs of that ability is that time is enlarged. We in fact acquire awareness of the environment through our senses. The stronger our nervous system is, the larger is our perception of what surrounds us. A different level of functioning is actualized in the brain, which accordingly ascends to states that would be described by  quantistic physics as states of “greater coherence” and “superior  quantic functioning”. 
The virtuous cycle
The phenomenon likewise happens in reverse: Becoming present to the now, to the present moment, to perceptiveness, also leads one gradually to an increment in mental energy and vitality. It is this augmented vitality which is in turn capable of increasing power and consciousness, as part of  a “virtuous cycle”. 
At that point, the different level of vigour increasingly unbinds and dissolves the “perceptive” blocks, that is, one’s habits. 
Presence to the moment ? Increase in Vitality
Vitality + Attention ? Presence
The attainment of the conscious understanding that we are capable of changing the perceived duration of time is a very important element. 
As far as the average man is concerned, time is something which is fixed and invariable. 
If, by contrast, we begin to understand that we are able to modify it, such understanding has the result of opening up for us the path to the comprehension of the reality of time, and the extent to which such time actually depends on us. 
By comprehending the process at work, it would then become easier to be connected to “absolute time”, draw close to it, and finally entrench oneself firmly in it. 
It is through the awareness of the possibility of this time (namely, the slow and absolute time) that true calm is born. This is an inward sensation which is intimately linked to the “slow time”. 
When, in fact, time slows down, it is as if more inputs (= a greater perceptive power) were to materialize on the periphery, while at the centre an increasingly deeper calm begins to reign. 17
This is also, for example, the experience related to me by my student Bruno, who has been a vice-champion of Karate in the past years. Karate is in fact also a way of “reawakening” the being. Basically, at the moment when the time to fight arrived, it was as if time slowed down. The first time, it happened in an unexpected manner, and even my student was surprised. He was in fact perceiving his opponent’s hits as if they were reaching him in a very slow fashion. His own hits, by contrast, were being unleashed at their ordinary speed.  That contrast enabled him to win all the fights. 18
Exercise 12: Experiencing the slow time.
Relax yourselves. Say to yourselves, ‘Now I am going into my own time.’ Regulate a metronome according to the rhythm of one beat every two seconds. Imagine yourselves carrying out a simple operation at every time interval (for example, tracing a mental line). After a while, we will realize that we might trace a longer line, and so on and so forth. 
It is quite easy “to halt time” by feeezing it in inaction and relaxation as per the aforesaid exercise. But it is also possible to do so, and even in a more useful way, while we develop a high tone. 
The key lies in the now and in the development of a “high tone”, without necessarily subjecting it to the task of thereby attaining an imaginary goal which lies outside of us. It will rather be sufficient to acquire consciousness of our own vitality and presence to it. Vitality does not depend on physical results; vitality is a way of being.


Quantity of elaborated information
Estimated subjective duration of time
More
Amplified
Less
Diminution
The two methods for slowing down time
There are thus two levels of temporal slowing which we might join together, as it happened to the karate athlete we have mentioned above.
The first type of slowing is linked to the processed mental content. It is increased by our  vitality.
As stated by the Swedish psychologist Marianne Frankenhauser: “Experiencing the duration of time is a reality which is connected to the accumulation of  experience (perceptive and cognitive sensations, emotional processes, etc) that takes place within a demarcated period of time. It is a reality which is essentially related to the cumulative effect of the mental content”. 
We again come across this first variety of slowing in the so-called “states of flux” that are characteristics of sport disciplines.

The second type of temporal slowing  (which might extend up to “stilled time”) is linked to de- conceptualization.
The more we de-conceptualize time, the more time slows down, as we acquire awareness of the “great time”. 
Time and creativity
The “expanded time” is also strictly linked to creativity.19 Creativity is the daily manifestation of an eternal and a-temporal world into which we cast a furtive glance. Though it is named “creativity”, in reality we do not create anything, since all the things exist already. We merely unveil what had not been discovered as yet. In other words, all we see is something that is already in existence, but had not been perceived or known before. “Discovery is a process in which certain manifestations of nature’s behaviour “penetrate” inside the flow of time from an external and eternal world”.20
The increase of energy and the “Great Cooking”
The ancient humans, too, had fully understood how energy could represent the key to access higher  dimensions. For one to realize, that is, a “regeneration” of man. According to the symbolism of the evolutionary process of the Great Work, the development of the energy level corresponds to raising the heat of the inward fire ?. 21 The third stage in man’s process of development is in fact called the “Great Cooking”. What is meant by this term is that the energy level is progressively raised, until more states of non-duality are capable of being developed. It is a new creation of man. The departure point is the “philosophical egg” in which “regeneration” occurs.
The elements which had earlier been prepared are inserted in the egg 22, (thereby alluding to the fact that one cannot ignore any part of the results achieved in the previous phase of the work). Thereupon, a new and even more total reintegration takes place. 
The egg is the symbol of the environment of conception, which explains why, in the works of the hermetic philosophers, the expression  “the egg of the world” might be come across. This expression is similarly found in the Indian sacred scriptures. 23 After twenty-one days, the small chick is born. As regards the function it performs, no better image than the coitus (as stated by Schwaller  de Lubicz) could be envisaged.24 The relationship between male and female runs indeed parallel, from a symbolical point of view, to the relationship between  definition and potentiality, between active principle ( = ?) and passive principle (moon ?). 
The egg is generally synonymous with a vase, and thus with man. During this phase, however, the symbolism might even refer to the conjunction of sun and moon which gives rise to the complete man (Refer to the image where, at the foot of the sun and the moon, a cock and a chicken are to be found). The subject of the work, “released from any extraneous body” (meaning that one should have undertaken a preliminary process of purification), should be introduced in the philosophical egg).


The phases which the Cooking goes through during the higher stage of the Great Work
Ancient knowledge used to detect various stages of self-energizing and self-presencing, which might be “known” and “lived”. In the operation of the “great cooking of the philosophical egg”, which coincides with the energetic phase, the relevant stages are in theory  seven. However, especially four of them (after the first one  that coincides with the philosophical egg being closed)  play a significant role, depending on the colours black (nigredo), white (albedo), and red (rubedo). The first phase, nigredo,  is once again “Saturn’s domain” (symbol = ?), that, is, the black phase of elimination, “death” of the ego”, which is even more intense than the preceding one.
As for the white (albedo)25, it later denotes, therefore, energetic enlivening carried to its uppermost degree, until, that is, the ultimate development of the “energetic body”, as well as to the so-called “ecstatic states”. The pertinent symbol is ?.
The “white” phase actualizes the “magnesia” of the sages. Once he is energized, man no longer suffers the magnetic influence of the outside world, and, conversely, he exercises a magnetic impact on other people. He is capable of gaining access to the gifts of intuition and comprehension of symbols. One now finds meaning, harmony, and a greater sensitivity to the energies which emanate from the environment. There is likewise a sense of being connected to the environment. The unity and life of every thing is discovered in this phase. Breathing might serve as an essential key for completing such an evolution. 
Lastly, the next passage consists in “sliding back into the body”. The colour red symbolically denotes the reunification between such spiritual body and the physical body (the blood), and the birth of yet a higher condition, which we might denominate “self– not-self”. 
It is again a condition of quintessence ? and of higher-level reintegration. In order to reach such higher states, aids might be legitimately utilized. They include the mirror, sexual techniques or other instruments that are capable of lending substantial assistance to these states, in which paying heedful regard to the now is of fundamental relevance. 
It is essential to keep an active approach while at the same time maintaining the perception of the body which ought to be in the now. When consciousness is open, that is, free vis-à-vis one’s own individualization, or put it differently, when it is aerial, the orgasmic moment might lead one to another form of consciousness. Entry on the part of the deep forces might ease the move to an ecstatic state. Individuality is then transformed into a transcendental state.26 We are dealing in this connection with levels that are situated “beyond the  essence”, insofar as they are no longer bound to the individual aspect. “The fact that these experiences differ from the ordinary activity of the mind, makes sure that the truths discovered by the soul in such intimate raptures  of the soul are not necessarily susceptible of any logical expounding. These experiences, in fact, transcend human reason; they are only perceivable by that supreme self, the lyre”.27
The two phases of the white and the red might be seen as successive phases: For example, from an experimental point of view, breathing exercises might be capable of helping the creation of the “white” phase, while the “red” one can only be obtained by integrating the body (the slegs) with one’s own consciousness. 
At a different level, the “white” phase represents the mystical phase, while the “red” one is the warrior’s phase.
At yet another level, the “white” phase is “the first realization of the hermetic caduceus”, whereas the “red” phase is the “the second realization of the hermetic caduceus”.
Two-vase techniques and the development of the “ferment” in those techniques that are based on ”vital energy”
As it has been mentioned earlier, a key lies in developing a surplus of nervous potential. In order for a surplus to be achieved, two terms are always present there, the absorbing force and the issuing one.  
The magnetic inductions which became widespread towards the end of 1700 are historical derived from the vulgarization of some elements contained in previous secret alchemical practices characteristic of the  “third level”, which practices operated upon the two elements of the active ( = ?) and the passive ( = ) . 
They historically simplify the process, by splitting into two the pair which is intrinsically represented by the man of consciousness I (I want)  and by infra-conscious reactions ? (I can/passive element). Such intrinsic pair is then laid in “two  vases”, that is, by operating on two different persons at a time (The vase is in fact the symbol for the individual person).
Essentially, the two vases consist in the operator, who always plays a more active more, and who leaves the passive role to the practicing subject.
Causing the latter to reach the most passive level that is possible has the effect of increasing the active role of the operator.
Though they are effective in solving certain problems, magnetic and mesmeric dynamics necessitate the presence of two persons, and perpetuate the split between the two roles, with the result that, in principle, each one of them ends up developing only one condition  (active or passive).
This modus operandi might prove most useful at a therapeutic level. We in fact use it practically, and teach it during our seminars as well. It might, however, show limits with regard to the development of presence. In addition, it carries the risk of keeping one in a constant state of “duality”, unless the operator himself does not exploit the intense field thus created in order to achieve a state of transcendence, and that by channelling the energy in a vertical direction (In order to accomplish that successfully, however, he ought to know the techniques and the itinerary laid out in this book, so as to avoid chancing upon such result accidentally).
On the other hand, in becoming specialized in one of the two roles (the active or the passive) there is the advantage that less energy is required to kick-start the process. 
The consequence of that is to render the exercises of preventive harmonization less indispensable, since a lower amount of energy is involved, and there is thus a lower risk of pathological overflow. 
Turning back to the magnetic inductions, we can observe that one will go through a series of phases in which a certain resemblance is discernible between the process of “letting go of oneself” and the so-called “putrefaction” (accompanied by the progressive isolation of the external environment, which is especially pronounced around the person); between the “magnetic ecstasy” and the energetic rise which is called ”albedo”, whereas the so-called “somnambulism”, where the subject eventually acts separately from his own  personality, corresponds to a form of “rubedo”.
A simple operational method 
If instead, in the course of the abovementioned exercises, the practicing subject concerned were to change role and to once more transmit vitality to the operator, a powerful psychological exchange would result from that.28
This, however, ought to take place ever more rapidly, in order to facilitate a resonance effect.
Since the purpose behind this work of ours is to guide the reader and the practicising subject (given that this art can only be understood by practicing it) to the best possible results, we are now going, therefore, to explain a simple way of implementing that on our own, by having recourse to a most ancient, scarcely known and extremely simple technique, which we have introduced you to in the preceding chapters of the present book, and which has been directly transmitted by our masters: The mirror. One has to begin by “purifying” his own self, by going through all the above mentioned stages of sublimation and acquisition of consciousness.
We have to be in front of a mirror and fix our gaze on our own selves without blinking the eyes. 
The first effect of such a practice is “to notice oneself”.29 Under normal circumstances, we forget about our own selves. When facing the mirror, we gradually start becoming present to our own selves .
What then occurs at a second stage is a phenomenon of “multiplication”. 
At that point, one discovers that, bit by bit, he moves on numberless occasions from subject to object, whereupon a change of state occurs, which is a "fermentation" of something new.30 
What one gets, indeed, is the development of a subtle interplay between the subject and the image. 31 One can feel an energy developing. The state might be facilitated even through the left eye alone, given that the “albedo” phase which we bring off through this kind of breathing is essentially lunar in nature, and as such related to the left side of the body. By the use of the mirror, we can even augment the energy at a later point, or appropriate certain symbols through the “eagle’s breathing”.
Exercise 13 Combined breathing.
While standing in front of a mirror, you should begin to gradually fill up your lungs. Briefly visualize a symbol which you want to become impregnated with. At the same time, you should, on ten occasions, slowly lift your arms, which you had previously stretched along your sides. Keep on inhaling air while raising up your stretched arms, until the thumbs touch each other at some high point. Thereupon, the lungs ought to be completely filled. When that stage is reached, you should slowly come back to an original state and position, by exhaling the air and gradually dropping your arms. You will derive a feeling of energy and expanded time.
The more one proceeds toward energy, the more he approximates the quintessence. It is important to keep oneself in a state of constant presence. One friend of ours once fell into a swoon as a result of gazing at himself incessantly! That is a mistake. If, on the contrary, we preserve control at that moment, we might actually arrive at a non-dualistic perception of time.
Another result which is attainable by keeping on pursuing with the exercise of the mirror is the arrival at a state of “being beyond time”, until one is capable of perceiving “different times”, that is, those famous phenomena of precognition and vision from afar which are related to a state of non-duality.32. 

During this process, one initially gets an exacerbation of the pineal gland, and a vision of the energetic body.
If, instead, we were to essentially see between the eyes (where the nose meets the front), the process would become more balanced (albeit longer), and we would obrain a “conjunction of moon and sun” (= our active and passive sides). “Such preponderance leads to the state ? , which is the state where the mind is conjoined to itself, and, in additioin, the experiencing of a certain independence, subsistence and superiority over whatever is corporeal and animal materializes... It is an intellectual light, in which you will realize a different sense of your own self, a new, powerful, transformed one”. 33
Philalethes states the following in Introitus, chapters I and XIII: ‘The same thing which happens to the seed occurs to our gold (? = sun, which is the awakened nucleus that has been established by  preparation); originally, it is dead, or, putting it better, its enlivening virtue is concealed under the hard peel of our body… As soon as it is irrigated by our water (which is A, the fluidic), it is reborn, regains existence, and turns into the Gold of the Philosophers)”.
Magnetism and sexual thrust
The two-vase procedure might be used not only with the mirror, but also through the employment of other methods, such us the recourse to the energy of sexual desire in conjunction with a suitable partner. 34 This is a methodology which descends from the earliest phase of ancient civilizations, and which has been kept secret in the West for many centuries. 
We ought to remember that the deepest meaning should always move beyond mere physiology, and should be known through the medium of the symbol and through continuous attention to presence.35 The danger, indeed, is not so much a physiological reality as the fact that the other person might feed the need to lean on and entrust his or her own self to somebody else for the sake of self-development, which instead can only be ignited from within.36
Energy must first be reawakened.
It is from this visual angle that we can observe the meaning of the “Woman turned Angelic” of Dante (Beatrice) as being a “ladder to the Maker”. 37
She is in fact the depiction of a feminine principle which might stand for a particular mode of attracting what Plato or other thinkers would describe as “the ideas”.
What essentially occurs is that an image, having the capacity to reawaken a source of energy in the masculine human vase, might be formed. As Dante puts it, the miraculous “woman of virtue” is said to awaken the “upright appetite”. A fire emanates from her, a fire which “shatters the innate vices”. 38 In this way, elevation and transcendence become possible.
As Dante says: “I kept my feet by that side of life beyond which one can no longer proceed, while still cultivating an intention to move back”. 39
This is a further quotation from Dante: “Love is power which is able to draw the spirit out of its “hostel”, and let it fly naked, free from any outer peel”.40
Naturally, the “Love” which Dante is referring to differs from sentimental love, as confirmed by Nicolò de Rossi41, who likens the ecstasy of “love” to the ecstasy experienced by “Saint Paul”, thereby alluding at the spirit opening up to states of being above individual states.42 It is a tool. An idea which is parallel to these concepts is the one of the “Virgin” as it has become entrenched in Western iconography.43 This concept in fact corresponds to a “veneration of Woman”. 
There are clear aspects of equivalence with the Eastern techniques aimed at transmuting energy, which are founded on the concept of the “Dakini”.
The reawakening of energies through the physical act  
The process of reawakening energies might additionally be developed at a more physical level. 
In the light of the potency of sexual energy (which the ancient people compared to “corrosive water”), a large deal of preparation is however necessary in that regard. How can we learn, and what is meant by ruling over one’s sexual strength? In order for the whole to achieve efficacy, we must in fact start from the foundation, from the initial task of subjecting the more usual forms of loss of energy to our domination. Such forms include the unconscious movements and the uncontrolled gestures. Eventually, we need to reach a point where we are capable of managing this force as well. It is meaningless, in fact, to contemplate the possibility of starting from the higher level without having first mastered the lower levels.44 
The effect would then be felt throughout the different levels. Those who are brimful of life, and who are energetic and magnetic, in fact, utilize their sexual strength, too, in an intelligent manner. 
From the physical viewpoint of the full sexual act in respect of man, a loss of energy, which is contained in the sexual liquids, is what often results from it. The human sperm is the finest part, just as a plant seed contains the finest components of the plant.45
Too often, sexual drive has been considered is an incorrect manner. Religious fanatics have condemned it and have attempted to detach themselves from the world through prayer, fasting and chastity.
This is a contraction and a preservation of energy which occasion a certain degree of sublimation, but it is possible to make use of such power in a more natural fashion.
Similarly to excessive expansion, indeed, excessive contraction, too, represents a problem.
We can discern these principles at work throughout Nature. They reveal themselves as life, movement and energy, and we call these principles spirit and matter, movement and matter, centrifugal and centripetal forces, heat and cold, positive and negative, masculine and feminine, etc.
They are two poles of one and the same reality. Each one of them is not complete without the other. It is not good if man (spirit, force or positive principle) stands alone. Everything in the universe needs its complementary principle.
The meaning of “what God has united should not be divided by man” refers to this principle.
The masculine and feminine characteristics which are found in the loftiest areas of the human being are wisdom and love, thoughts and emotions, justice and temperance, wisdom and art.
One’s personal and social lives are incomplete when one of the two principles rules over the other.
Even in this regard, man cannot sever one from the other or limit himself to develop only one of the two, without in so doing splitting himself up and causing harm to himself. 
The denuding of the power of life 
Sexuality is a development of polarity. Both poles are expressions of the same energy, since one pole cannot be stronger than the other. 
The symbol of this development is the caduceus, which shows the two polarities wrapping themselves up together around the central axis. This symbol was already found among the ancient Egyptians.46
The first development of the hermetic caduceus is, therefore, the growth of energy, whereas the second preparation consists in being connected to the body principle.
In an exercise that has been taught to us by one of our masters, the development of complementary sensations on both sides of the body has the consequential effect of a central sensation of power being given birth to. That sensation is the unified expression of the single energy which actually circulates.
In an analogous fashion, sexuality in man might be a means of developing the energy which results from the differential between the two poles, to such a point that one will eventually reach awareness of the unitary potential.
 47
There are moments in which, by contrast, it is possible to catch the life force by surprise. Orgasm is one of those moments, and it denotes a moment of transcending the ego. As such, it is more characteristic of the utilization of the “dry way”48.  During the sexual act, it is the autonomous nervous system, the vegetative and vital part of man, which manifests itself independently of the conscious will.
Symbolism
The symbolism of the  horizontal (= G) and the vertical  (= E) might even be interpreted as the encounter between the feminine and the masculine principles, which eventually lead to conjunction (= ?),  and also, by dominating the solar princile, to the quintessential central principle  (= ?), as ilustrated by the ancient code which is depicted on the right side c49.
It is in fact possible to carry out bodily orgasm in such a manner that, through the medium of erotic orgasm, “life’s consciousness is forced to reveal itself in the power of life in its pure state, when we blend with it and take it to its furthmost  limit”.50
The sense of time, too, might then be extended to the point where we are capable of transcending the ego and reaching a central level.
The sense of being separated from the world can then vanish away, and, at the higher levels, one can experience a sense of being united with the world.
In that very state where stark transcendence manifests itself51, it is  in fact possible to occasion a transformation, and break up the circle which “kills”.52 That is done for the sake of stabilizing the lofty state thus attained. 
Breaking the gold
A key element for developing one’s state of presence is “to break gold in order to make gold again”. This is another way of expressing the concept that it is necessary to transcend the limited ego in order to reach a higher level.
Said in different words, breaking the old personality 53 while nevertheless preserving, in such a state, some  “quintessence”, i.e. the active, subtle and essential principle of gold alone. Ordinary gold is usually found in “fixed natures”. In other words, we live out a particular type of ego, while we forbid to ourselves all the other states of the deep being.
It is accordingly important to firstly move into a “fluid” state, by letting go of fixed realities. We start achieving this first result by increasing the energetic charge. The key point consists in “being rescued from the waters” (maya), rather than being fixed and stirred by the various impulses and objects and being absorbed into  reality.
Transcending utilitarianism and staying in the now 
The ego consists in our automatic processes, our beliefs, our memories. An array of different experiences and modern researches have demonstrated how the entire process of the ego is predictive and aimed at a specific utility. 54 The mind utilizes knowledge of time in order to foresee its own reactions and pave way for its own actions. 
An essential key is being capable of accomplishing an action beyond the scope of any utilitarian aim occasioned by the quest for an immediate gain, in other words, an action whoch does not rest on the mental mechanisms of being orientated toward the immediately future time. 55 When we are in the now, we can move beyond the ego and perceive “the absolute time”. If we transcend utilitarianism, meaning our self-projection to the next istant, the signification of that is that we leave the confines of “linear time”, and we establish contact with that part of the mind which is directly linked to the being that transcends time. This is the import of the ancient practices aimed at controlling the orientation of energy. 
Just as a static tension (i.e. the tension of a muscle and its antagonist, by blocking a motion and simultaneously consuming energy) exceeds the boundaries of utilitarianism and is able to generate neuric energy, since it consists in a “non-action”, the same applies to other, even more powerful methods, such as the correct use of sexual energy, as it might be directed in a way which is not immediately utilitarian (reproduction) by accompanying the sexual act with the so-called retention of sperm and energy.
If we wanted to put it in another manner, we could say that the profound Nature of the self is power, and that such power might then be actualized within the deep conation which life wills, and which manifests in the impulses of preservation and reproduction. In other words, the sexual act itself becomes a moment to recover the life force. The fundamental concept is being in the now.
One accordingly climbs his way back to the transcendental principles by making use of the ladder of the organic human being. The goal is to divinely live functions which would be otherwise lived out in a purely material fashion.
What we find in the orgasm is the meeting between fire ? and water ?, as well as the encounter between one’s self and the other. Accordingly, it might likewise encompass the accomplishment of a state of self- not-self, that is, the amalgam: The amalgam is to surmount the distinction self- not-self.  This meeting thus symbolizes even the act of eternal self-generating through power. 
In that manner, we will actualize the nucleus that resists “waters”. 
The two regimes
56
In order to obtain that result, there are two successive passages or regimes to go through.57
The first part consists in bringing about a moment of instability through the medium of excitement, for the purpose of destroying what is fixed, that is, our entrenched nature.
One has to grab the “rhythm” through the force of his will.  
Sexual energy has in fact gifted us with a body, and so we once again appropriate for ourselves the power which is ensconced in it. 
 Through such process, we might act on the imagination, by making use of the mantra as well. It is important to link the process with enthusiasm (enlivening the imagination with a saturated image – being in fact enthusiasm). One may suggest that “the partner should be enveloped by a burning fluid capable of functioning as an evocation”, i.e. linking such evocation to an archetype. 
When that stage is reached, based as it is on such an intense preparation, even the transcending of the “archetype” of the woman will take place.58 
We can observe that the concept we have spread out here above might in any case be extended to transcend other archetypes as well. The technique one follows in this case will consist in vivifying an image and taking command of its force by adopting a superior state of control.  The rebis is the fundamental symbol here, as it alludes at surmounting polarities. A helpful method59 consists in directing one’s attention behind one’s head, and creating in it an image that comprises both the energies 60. 61
The fire, through such an initial passage, incorporates the (lunar) nectar. 62
The first regime is the regime of water, where the common sulphur, man, lets himself be absorbed by woman, who proceeds to absorb him into the ebriety-vortex.63 It is the regime of water. As this point, one ought to train the “fire against nature”, or “our iron”,  to thrust the current upwardly64 and produce the trasformation, in so doing setting the second phase into motion and returning power to the man, who reacts and inverts the polarities.
This process has to take place during the moment of crisis or erotic apex which would normally result in the emission of sperm, but which, in a hidden way, is also a way to strip the life power naked.65 Once this stage is reached, the “sucked” power of the woman becomes the man’s pleasure as well.66 The symbolism might even be conceived as being akin to the one of steel, the symbol of which,  , reminds one of the symbol of Mars (iron), but in a more enhanced form.67
Fire consists in the capacity to put an end to the regime of the waters. 
“It is to a hardness and unbreakable force extracted from iron, by subjecting it to a treatment with water and fire – a force possessed by steel, too – that the symbolism of the philosophers has especially looked up. The cosmopolitan person assimilates the virtue of the  magnet to the “steel of the sages”, which should be understood in this context as meaning the transcendental “hardness” of the hegemonic spirit and the incombustible sulphur, by which the pure mercurial forces are subjugated the way a female is subjugated by a male.  68
Some Practical Techniques
Woman : A woman must control the excessive centralization and introversion of energy by means of movements that are outwardly bound. Man ought to proceed in the opposite way. Nevertheless, while controlling the energy is generally easier for a woman, who is able to directly apply the more complete version, the process is more complex with regard to man. There are two basic ways in which man can achieve this result. The first basic path (which has even been popularized by a number of manuals) consists in the contraction of the pubococcygeus muscle. This is a mechanical method. It has the advantage of technical simplicity, but, at the same time, it only represents a departure point. One operates on the muscle which additionally controls the flow of urine, a muscle which, if well developed, prevents the ejection of sperm; this way, nevertheless, provokes the loss of some energy. This first path, therefore, is beset with some difficulties and tainted by its incompleteness.  69 The second way is actualized by paying attention to one’s own excitement, by keeping oneself in the present – by being aware of one’s body – as much as possible, and by controlling all of one’s actions. This second procedure is more effective and in congruity with the final result we intend to achieve (= an ever increasing increase of one’s  presence). Normally, in fact, the awareness of one’s body during the sexual act is restricted to the genital organs. Extending such awareness to the rest of the body enables one to attain a higher level. The practicing subject must “de-conceptualize” sexual feelings and see them only as pure energy. The process is accordingly articulated as follows: Tension ? charge ? expansion (looking around and integrating reality),  etc, in a continuous crescendo.



Sexual energy should only be seen as “energy”. Gradually, levels that are increasingly more elevated are reached. Bit by bit, the sensation of “energy” can be extended to the body, the surrounding environment, etc. The following two exercises (quoted by Wolinsky) are extremely effective.
Exercise 14: Sexual fantasy 
Conjure up some sexual fantasy. 70 You should remove attention away from conceptualization, and observe where and how you experience sensations.  You should now feel such sensations as energy which you are an integral part of and which represents your elemental structure. Thereafter, you should expand presence until you absorb such fantasy into the presence.
Exercise 15: To be carried out with a partner
You must acquire awareness of the experience. While the energy rises, both you and your partner ought to de-conceptualize, and feel the energy as a sheer sensation which is part and parcel of you. You should then extend consciousness to the environment as well, as much as you can.

The last-mentioned path is the main artery, and the most powerful way. In any event, restraint and imagination are both capable to lending assistance in every situation, whichever way they are carried out (including through muscular contraction). The uppermost power, of course, is found in being present in the now even in the  sexual moment. Normally, in fact, we tend to conceptualize in that context as well. Transcending conceptualizations is accordingly a very potent tool. We then exit the “construction of the world” which is carried out by the mind, and we succeed in being present inside the “pure reality”. In order to achieve this, we must however guide ourselves beyond the observer ? observed dyad. We must therefore acquire a meta-position.  In Chinese alchemy, one is asked to imagine himself being behind his head (The image on the right, which comes from J. De Vries and is titled “fourneau”, showing as it does a woman who is born behind the very head of such woman, depicted as a “cooker”, might be an allusion to this in the Western tradition).  This mental condition, which at first is built through imagination, eventually turns into an actual perceptive reality. 71 We then become witnesses unto ourselves. Even without intricate forms of imagination, in any event, it is self-consciousness which plays a fundamental role and, once it is expanded, it is the true rose that is born from the top of the skull into the “red” action (i.e. related to the body - rubedo). This true rose is what leads to a different state of presence.
The ”gold of the Sages”. The regulus or “small king” 
The presence (regardless of how it is developed) leads to a consequentiality and an inspiration of action, which accordingly becomes both “direct” and “measured”. One of the gifts of presence is “wisdom”. Integrated man can in fact act in a more upright manner, and eschew the deviations occasioned by the independent mental processes that are linked to the ego.
In the “great work”, this is “the gold of the sages”. 
The wise person, in fact, does not dissipate himself in what he does.72
An ancient symbol which is used to denote the level of the sages’ gold, wisdom, is the “regulus”, which in Latin 73 signifies the small king, and stands for the sceptre that is acquired. 
At the same time, the regulus is also a measuring instrument which serves to indicate the ability to exercise control.
The concept of “measure” becomes increasingly more important as our energy level escalates, and it bears a particular connotation with regard to magnetic-sexual techniques as previously explained. In the following ancient drawing, the rose appears over the king. 74
There is a resemblance with the Egyptian symbol of the Ankh, where it is the sun which emerges above the  Tau.75
76

Athanor and Tan Tien: The three levels
ATHANOR (from the Arabic word “Al Tannur”). An ancient Western tradition is represented by the athanor. The athanor is a three-tier oven, and it is the symbol of the human organism in which the great work of regeneration is effected.77 

The three-tier symbol78 is the same as the Eastern concept of the three tan tien, which differentiates between three areas of the body (cinnabar fields), corresponding to the area of the navel, the heart and the head.79

In the Chinese tradition, one finds a manner of operating which gradually ascends from the lower to the higher tan tien.
In an analogous fashion, in the field of sexuality will is capable of guiding the resultant energy upwardly.
A similar process occurs in the athanor, as evinced by yet another ancient symbol: STEEL, in which energy is directed upwardly .80
We discern in fact the similitude which exists between the symbol of steel and another symbol of the athanor, in terms of which the latter is simply understood as “the place of combustion”.
Steel  Athanor.
The athanor might thus be viewed as an increasingly animated matter, comparable, in that sense, with man, who reawakens power during the sexual act. 
The symbol includes an A, which might be broken up into an L, the sign of fire, and a horizontal bar (the sign of sulphur and of awareness). Finally, we get the letter t (tau), which refers back to the Ankh or Egyptian cross, i.e. the hermetic Venus. The overlay figure is the circle, in other words, the relationship between that and matter. Steel emerges as the instrument which directs energy. 
The Athanor, therefore, is the point of departure of energy, which steel directs upwardly (toward the head). as stated by Pernety81: “The Athanor is the matter which is animated by a philosophical fire, already present in it but usually asleep, which cannot be developed save through art”.
The path of energy and the flower 
With steel, energy might be guided upwardly, until it eventually reaches the head. “Indeed, by the time when the virtue of steel is reawakened, one is on his way to attaining the virile spiritual power which is capable of bringing the elements that make up the human being to a state which no longer belongs to the “flux”. 82
Crossing the waters or the earth, on the part of the “stem”, followed by the stem blossoming into flower, hermetically adumbrate these very same meanings. 
From a physiological point of view, the phenomenon occurs by the flower opening up right on top. This part of the body, which corresponds, in Indian philosophy, to the highest chakra, is ascribed to Saturn who, at the original state of average castrated man, one in other words dispossessed of his power, is instead brought back to a dominating condition by this methodology, whereupon he becomes the “God of the golden age”. 83
The magnet
The selfsame concept is also applied in the field of personal  magnetism. As stressed by Kremmerz, “the alchemical sign of the magnet is analogous to the sympathetic attraction which is established between sexual extremes”. The meaning of what Pernety says is thus clear: “The centre of the magnet contains a hidden salt, a menstrual cycle which has the capacity to ash the philosophical gold. Such prepared salt creates the quicksilver of the sexual extremes, by which they realize the magisterium of the sages in both the white and red phases. It thus turns into a mine of celestial fire, which acts as ferment for the stone in order to multiply it, and extract the elixir of the stone, i.e. the dust of projection, and universal medicine. All of that is accomplished by means of a simple, far from costly operation, albeit one which consumes a slightly longer period of time”.
Basically, the utilization of sexual strength is one of the keys to enhance man.84 The hidden salt which can make gold ashen is this strength.  This strength further lies at the source of igneous quicksilver (that is, the quicksilver of the wisemen), which is the foundation of the stone in white and in red. The magnet is the active and passive pairing of the human body.
The sign of the caduceus is thus connected to the magnet once more. Kremmerz further states that “the magnet develops by virtue of the authoritative force  of raw quicksilver” in the egg, and it represents heat which is not fixed (stone in white), and which, by fixation, has to become fixed (That is the subsequent passage to stone in red).85
This “circulatory authority possessed by quicksilver” traces itself back to the utilization of breathing.
Note
The utilization of sexual techniques is an extremely powerful tool to open up one’s mind and enable an “intuition” of what is “absolute time”. 
Being present, however, ought to be a life commitment. Only in that way can one avoid the risk that exclusive recourse to the sexual methodology might in fact witness serious setbacks86, and that any possible accidental loss of control might lead to a much lower mental firmness than its pre-existing level, such that regaining the former level of mental firmness might prove difficult. It is indeed of no use to possess one element without the others. This is the true meaning of the expression “corrosive waters”, which is the term such techniques were once described by. 

 Transcending the ego and the usual time
Reality is quantic and unpredictable. The goal we want to ultimately lead you to through this book is to move beyond the mental superstructures by which we attempt to stem the chaos of reality, via the construction of a fictional fixity. The further goal is for you to finally gain access to your quantic mind, to the integral man or “homo totus”. Sex is but one of the energizing methods, and, through excitement, it represents a way of achieving the “visible chaos”. 
The result, however, is equally attainable through the medium of mere continuos presence, which is what gives birth to the “invisible chaos”, the one which gradually but inexorably demolishes the superstructures precluding man from being his own self.87

The passage that is in fact required in order to recover one’s own time is for us to transcend our little programming ego which believes it is everything, and to exit the sphere of utilitarianism. Being present in the moment  is the first and last key to accomplish that aim.
It is then that true eternity becomes contained in the present time.
The truly essential requirement is presence, rather than the technique alone.
Let us now re-examine, therefore, the various phases of energetic excitement which have been previously laid out in connection with the techniques “of the mirror” and the sexual techniques. At this stage of re-examination of the same, we should however focus our attention on the deep aspects which are included in such work, in order to enable the reader to interiorize the meaning thereof more effectively. 
The “White” and the “Red” (albedo and rubedo)
Man’s rebirth
The death of the ego signifies man’s rebirth in an altogether higher and vertical dimension represented by the symbol |. Two moments are discernible in this verticality. In the symbolical tradition, the white (albedo) and the red (rubedo) refer to two essential and sequentially successive stages which result from this “rebirth” of man, until an increasingly broader level of consciousness, in which connection is extended to the entire spectrum of perceptions, the environment and the other persons, is eventually attained. “If one analyses the nature of consciousness, he will find that the concept which is common to human consciousness, namely, envisioning the individual consciousness as being separate and necessarily circumscribed in its dependence on its little  universe, is something which does not accord with the actual facts. The subliminal consciousness, which is the object of study in hypnosis, somnambulism and mediumship, is displayed as something far wider and more perfect than ordinary consciousness. F.H.Myers did not hesitate to ascribe to subliminal consciousness faculties and powers incomparably vaster than those possessed by ordinary consciousness, while Edoardo von Hartmann has turned the unconscious into a kind of essentially omnipotent divinity. On the basis of their own personal experience, all the mystics, whether Western or Eastern, concur on asserting that the human consciousness in the samadhi or the ecstasy expands and metamorphoses in a marvellous way... The unfolding of life in space and time” (that is, the need to survive)   “is most likely one of the causes which bring about and perpetuate the sense of separation of the consciousness”.88
Albedo,Exaltation and Spiritual Perception
“Silver of the Sages ?”
?: “Lunar” Higher Principle
All the traditions that focus on development acknowledge the existence of non-physical developmental dimensions, just as they concede that the world is not confined to what we can tangibly perceive. According to quantistic physics, the physicality of quotidian existence is nothing but a fallacious impression of the senses. Now and then, the average man ascends by mere chance beyond such erroneous impression. On some occasions, accordingly, it is as if he might cast a fleeting look either at the past or at the future. Reality appears to consist in the fact that linear time is a mere illusion, and that the totality of time exists as a single whole alongside the present. As far as the average man is concerned, however, such accidental openings represent no more than exceptions, single moments when the ego and the habit of noticing “things” purely within a time sequence loosen their grip for a short time. Thereafter, the average man, thereby falling into error, seeks to forget or rationalize these moments where he peeps into a world which he does not know. They are instants in which the spirit seems to achieve deliverance from the chains that ostensibly fetter him to the flesh, whereupon he perceives things which are normally concealed from his sight. These are experiences that have always existed, and which, in the past, have been recounted by inter alia Plato, Aristotle, Fichte, and Hegel. The seeker, on the other hand, integrates everything into a whole, and in fact actually develops it. As far as the person who truly wants to be present, perception and presence extend beyond the body into the realms of vision and intuition.89 This is the reintegration that moves forward into the “energetic body” and the vital soul. It might likewise be viewed as perception and integration of infra-conscious dynamics which sustain both the body and the perception of reality. What is consequently born out of that is a deep understanding of the symbolical dimension, an intuitive comprehension of the symbol and those profound elements which lie at the source foundation of our apprehension of reality. Becoming reintegrated is indeed an elation which causes us to become connected and enlarged, and to expand further into dimensions which are not strictly sensory and are more spiritual in character. The hermetic philosophers used to describe such phase as “lunar”, or call it “work in the white” (albedo). A spiritual light is perceived during these phases. As with all symbols generally, we notice a physical component as well. Physiologically, in fact, one further detects a different functioning on the part of the brain, which is escorted by actual luminous sensations and by the contemplation of the white light. Before anything else, however, the state is a state of the spirit. Man has loosened himself from the ego, and he accordingly acquires a broader vision. One must be careful not to mistake the exercises as being the state itself. The exercises are merely ways of enlarging perception so as to encompass realities which are not physical. However, if we truly desire to reach the final goal, the exercises must never turn into a reality with which we might identify ourselves. We would otherwise fall into what has been named “psychological bodybuilding”. Some people, for instance, enthuse over self-doubling, or get excited to develop a healing power. This is a mistake. Such people, in fact, only develop one ability and forget that it must always be coordinated with the whole. It is only in the whole that we truly actualize the “homo totus” or “global” or “quantic man”.
Exercise 16: Ocular convergence 
This exercise develops sensitivity to the subtle body: You must pay notice to the point where the nose is connected with the front (the third eye). You must acquire awareness, at the level of the third eye, of apparent images.90 After you have carried out this practice, you ought to say the following to yourselves, ‘My spirit is capable of moving beyond time and space.’
Exercise 17: The auras
It is aimed at developing sensitivity to the subtle body: Try and see the “auras” of people (it is an exercise of ch’an origin)
A traditionally related gift:  Intelligence
In the ancient scholastic method, which in turn derived from the classical tradition, such a level of development of the human potential is linked to “intelligence”, i.e. to a level of understanding and vision which is higher than the prevailing ones, all of which are limited by ignorance. It is the ability to comprehend the meanings. It is the reintegration of the spiritual level as well, which level, indeed, enables one to understand life. So long as one is stuck with the physical level, in fact, he is merely connected to physicality and its intrinsic limitations. 
Mental lucidity
During the “work in the white”, one can discern a series of perceptions which transcend the physical aspect. Such work is characterized by phenomena of “lucidity”. The word comes from the adjective "lucid", which is in turn related to the etymological root of the word “light”. In truth, light has always been related to having “clear ideas”, “a vision of the future".
Mental lucidity is the basis of intuition.  Intuition (from the Latin “in tueri”) indicates turning one’s look towards an inner world.91 Intuition is the voice of the heart, that consciousness which allows man to orientate himself without errors as far as the correct accomplishment and actualization of his individuality are concerned.92 
In other terms, what takes place in this particular phase consists in the reawakening of the individual’s strengths and thought, the refinement of the sensory apparatus, and an increasingly vaster field of expansion and realization of the individual’s faculties. 
Simultaneously, magnetism, too, is increased. 
Utilization of light in order to excite the brain 
Apart from the inward disposition, an aid to the development of this higher ”intelligence” is found in light, understood in the sense of a physical element which impacts on our physiology and acts on it. In our school, we have carried out a series of corroborating researches concerning its use in order to enhance man.93 Physical light is useful, for example, at the initial stage, for the purpose of assisting in the creation of the mental image of light itself.94 We might then increase magnetism through the sagacious use of white light, whether in its direct or its reflected forms.95 It is possible to attain states of plenitude even without recourse to its actual physical use, but the path would then prove to be far more arduous, and it would in any event still pass through phases in which light appears in a mental form.
Exercise 18: Memory of the visual reflection of the light.
You should train yourself to look at objects over which light falls, and recollect them in your mind. This light is in fact polarized (A mirror, too, allows us to generate such type of light). The reflected life brings about a neurological change in the inner core of a person, and a more attentive perception of the “diaphanous”, that is, the development of the receptive and perceptive polarity of energies.
There are several traditions regarding man’s development which employ light as a physiological aid, in the form of fires, candles, lamps, etc. The ancient Zoroastrians, for example, used to pray by gazing at the fire. We are allowed to believe that they were proceeding along an important path. There is a secret behind their practice, one which reaches us from the most ancient times, and which modern science has yet to thoroughly study and disclose.
What is certain is that light excites the neuron to its maximum extent (at least with regard to the visual part). Recent researches likewise confirm the fact that, by utilizing light, we might engender a state of evolution of creativity. Physical light is thus A FACILITATING AID, and it “multiplies” what is found in the mind. 
In order to attempt an explanation of its usefulness, we are going to resort at this stage to a series of reflections founded on modern quantic theory. The Universe is a whole. From this whole, our perception “excises” some parts. These parts correspond to certain states of vibration on the part of our neurons. For example, the neurons of the visual cortex must be activated in a manner which differs from the way by which we perceive a mountain.
This concept likewise lies at the heart of the holonomic theory developed by Pribram and by Bohm: "Every sense works like a lens, by refocusing the visual waves both through the perception of specific elements which are repeated as the basis, and through the discernment of a reasonable amount of quantities. If we remove the lenses, nothing is left but a hologram”.
As every sense operates by refocusing in accordance with certain mechanisms, it is difficult to regain access to the WHOLE.
We might name this whole an “all-powerful whole”, by using, that is, its likeness to the concept of “omnipotence” which is utilized in the biology of the stem cells that are capable of developing inside any cell of the organism.
The white light is an “all-powerful whole”, in that it contains all the colours by virtue of a quantic superposition. What we call reality is only the light which is reflected upon the different objects. In the white light, every visible object is already present in principle. 
Many experiences share the experiencing of light.
When we observe the light, and, even more importantly, when we are able to see white light, or imagine it, even when we close our eyes, we are drawing close to the “all-powerful field”, which is very similar to the concept of "quantic field".
The ancient people, for example, used to link clairvoyance to it, and there are many nations who up to today observe fire to draw inspiration. That is the case, for example, of the Pygmies in Africa and the Parsis.
Exercise 19: The power of light 
For 30 seconds, while inside a dark room, you should gaze at a light (maximum 60 watt, at a distance of no less than one and a half meters), or else at a candle (though in the latter case the effect will be less pronounced). Thereafter, you ought to close your eyes and keep them shut all the way until the disappearance of the luminous residue. You shall discern an inward sensation, while you are busy fixing your sight on the residual luminous trace. You must carry out this exercise daily, in so doing progressively developing your concentration on the said trace. It will begin to “awaken your mind” and facilitate all the subsequent work.
Even other elements, such as sounds and rhythms, might be capable of helping “cerebral coherence”.  Here, once again, the ultimate goal is to bring about the unification of thought.96 
Related sense: Seeing beyond time 
In the ancient traditione, the talent which is usually linked to this phase is the gift of intuition that expands until it reaches the degree of clairvoyance.97 In other words, we bring about a form of transcending time and space.98 The more we transcend the ego, the more we approximate states in which time acquires a different value. Time is something which does not exist beyond the ego, just as, in physics, time does not exist beyond the gravitational field. 
Kant used to say that time did not exist. Time is only a category created by our own mind, which we need so as to structure experiences in an orderly fashion. It is something which we foist on the world, as part of our “perceptive apparatus”. As it is stated by the psychologist Kurt Dressler, “in its true essence reality only seems to know uninterrupted unity and presence. It appears to our consciousness as temporal succession”. 
In China, too, the way of the Tao includes exercises having the objective of developing such quality of clairvoyance as an “integration” of man, in terms of which the soul is enabled to perceive a larger dimension of things. Such type of percepton (which is Yin in nature)  is essential for the purpose of subsequently applying the Yang side of action (whereupon we would arrive at the phase of “rubedo” and wisdom).
Expansion of consciousness – Self-germination and “magical body” 99 - The path to the elixir
Our spirit, our consciousness, lies beyond space and time. Apart from time, therefore, space, too, is capable of being transcended. Splitting oneself is a most ancient practice which is resorted to so as to access the spiritual domain. The purpose of it is to enable the realization of the fact that consciousness is not located in any specific place, since everything might indeed be regarded as consciousness. By pursuing this path, one might become empowered to understand that consciousness is everywhere. It is thus a support that has the potential of helping one reach the concept of non- duality.
 A first level of self-splitting occasioned by presence is the split between the “agent” of our mental representation and the “witness” thereof. Already this attutude has its useful benefit. 
Still within this context, the dimension of the so-called “self-splitting” additionally represents the establishment of contact with the dimension of the “subtle body”, which is usually held captive by the physical body. 
Therefore, just as the mind can work on the body, it can also operate on the dimension of the environment, as the latter is merely a creation of our own mind.  
The duality which was established between us and the environment vanishes away, and everything now appears as a manifestation of one and the same energy. This practice leads one to the conscious realization that the mind is made up by the same elements which the environment consists of. In the Chinese approach to the Tao, an initial phase of that way is represented by the development of  “telepathy”. The meaning of that exercise is in fact to take a first step on the path of “moving out of one’s own self” and “feeling the other being as if he were us”. The sexual techniques can facilitate that. In the sexual act, it is possible to overcome the self – not-self duality, which explains why it might represent a valid foundation for the attainment of such a state.
This faculty leads one to move beyond the division “self– not-self”, through a first stage which we might term the stage of the “extended self”. It is this development which is curatively treated during the so-called “self-doubling” process. 
It is access to a “quantic” dimension sustained only by the principle of one’s consciousness.
The departure point, according to the traditional practice, is the state of “nakedness” which is obtained through the initiatic death of the ego. The first operation in that connection consists, therefore, in moving into a direct relationship with that of which the world of thoughts, representations and emotions themselves is no more than a palid externalized reflection. For the sake of that, one has to embark on the actualization of the fluidic and subtle state which functions as mediator between the two worlds, the world of tangible externality, and the other domain of solar  immanence. 100 When one is in the “fluidic” state (?) of self-doubling, thinking of some place or being marked by a truly authentic presence, represents a virtue in such a context. 101.The spirit is beyond time, and not just beyond space. 
By virtue of this fluidic state, we can establish contact with the deep forces that are enchained within the organism, and which are traditionally symbolized by the “animal kingdom”. Such kingdom is in fact related to the state of “sleep”, vegetable kingdom, a state of ostensible death linked to the “mineral kingdom”.
In that process, the symbols stand for the way in which one establishes a contact with the  “Archetypes” of the different animal species, that is, the entities whose forms are only corpuscles of their “bodies”.
Surrender of the ego ? fluidic state (?) 102 as “mediator” ? connection to symbols
The one and the periekon
There is yet another step to be taken in such practice. “The development of that body is capable of moving further beyond, and of engendering in a person the acknowledgment of a principle “one” (hence, non-dual), which is in itself invulnerable and immortal.103 This is an increasingly more far-reaching elevation, as well as a palingenesis which, in the last two verses of the Aureate sayings, the ancient Pythagorean philosophers solemnly promise to the disciple who succeeds in abandoning the body and rising up to the free ether. That is in turn the exact equivalent of similar practices which, in the Eastern world, the “immortal” Taoists engage in. Dante, too, clearly alludes at the practice, which represents the very essence of the Divine Comedy. Palingenesis is, therefore, the state of being born to immortal and divine life, whereas the first birth only grants access to human life, for otherwise palingenesis would become redundant. 
Moreover, insofar as the Aureate sayings were addressed at the disciple who was living a human existence, they synthesize what ought to be done by stating that, once the body is surrendered to itself, it is required, through one’s inner core and one’s spirit, to consciously reach up to the free ether, that is, to the band of the enveloper (the periekon or Empyrean). The person concerned is then born once more to the higher principle, and the great work is actualized through the medium of the amalgan, the assimilation of individual consciousness into the non-differentiated consciousness, which assimilation takes place in a state of non-duality. It is in the course of this ecstasy that palingenesis is effected. The body subsists the way it subsists in a state of deep sleep or during periods of loss of consciousness, but, as the Pythagorean philosophers used to stress, it is no longer a chain, a limitation, a grave for the disciple. As the latter has gradually acquired autonomy and brisk activity through the reawakening of his spiritual faculties, he now ascends through the heavens until he reaches the tenth heaven or Empyrean. In this state of the body and his consciousness, the palingenesis can eventually materialize.”104 105.
Some tradizional keys and hermetic  concordances aimed at a better development of the symbol  ?
Practical equivalence: exactitude
Sensory element which develops it:  clairvoyance
Compulsion/Defect to be overcome: lack of discernment/blindness
Colour of the Prism which best activates it: Violet
Art capable of developing it: Astrology/Scientific Divination 

Straight Action
?: The regulus and the I sulphur (or gold) of the sages
External behaviour: The Egyptian, Greek and even the Chinese traditions are pragmatic. In order for integration to the exaltation of the inner being to be complete, one has to additionally incorporate a “straight” action, one, that is, which is directed at a purpose. It must become expressed not only in mysticism, since the spirit also needs to be reintegrated at a higher level. We must be able to emanate light in the direction of the other people through the medium of actions. In that manner, man will realize the ultimate l’integration, the tri-unity of spirit (will), soul and body. 106 Man must basically be in control of himself. The external attitude of such a man is not the way many people imagine, i.e. the attitude of a possessed man stirred up by the tarantula, who throws most of the world upside down. It is the attitude of a calm man, who is always the same, free from arrogance or humility. He has a straight and confident look, he talks slowly in a full tone, he says, if need be, ‘I don’t know’ and ‘I apologize’. His mode of speaking is exact, precise, shorn of any stylistic embellishment. He does not ctiticize any person, but is rather concerned with acting. He freely expresses his own opinion if he is solicited to put it forward, but makes sure to refrain from imposing it when that is not required. He is in the action. He operates and is able to maintain himself at whatever level he desires. When he is busy at work, he truly works; when he is engaged in eating, he is really eating; when he amuses himself or is asleep, he genuinely does so. 
He does nothing which is useless, and always confers a precisely defined, clear and immediate purpose on his own activity.
Chinese alchemy, too, knows the concept of the “TE”.
The “TE” is the straight action of the sage who acts in accordance with the way of the TAO (Cf. Tao Te King).
In order for action to be “straight”, it is however necessary for it to conform to a series of element which the rational mind itself, in its linearity and finiteness, is unable to conceive. Accordingly, a specific type of sensibility and wisdom is required .107 
Correlated sense: Sixth sense
In order to access this, it is thus necessary to develop the “sixth sense”, i.e. the direct perception of wisdom (as well as the so-called “angel’s level”). Listening to direct wisdom is what tells one how to operate within reality. These are the “ears of the heart” from which the direct action originates. The concept is clearly expressed by Meister Eckart as follows: “It is on the basis of this deeper principle that you should implement your actions, wuthout a why. I am resolutely going to state it: So long as you carry out your deeds for the sake of the heavenly kingdom, God or sanctity, while being pushed by another force, from without and not from within, you will never be truly in the right 108… If you were to ask a true man, a man who acts from deep inside himself (= moved in so doing by the principle sun ?), ‘Why do you do what you do?’, he will only give you a true reply if he were to say, ‘I act for nothing other than the action itself.’ In the enneagram, that is represented by the action which is carried out by the person who is at the centre, and who is able to extract from the quintessence the root of his own action”. What has basically occurred is a transformation, brought about by the deepest root from which actions gush out. 
It is accordingly a very elevated state, being a state of “absolute self-possession” of one’s will. Subliminal impressions, or desires, no longer shackle the person. This is the true meaning of the person who can “do whatever he wills”. Willing is now intended as autonomy, connection to one’s own self, and the path to tread is to bring to the light of consciousness what was being removed from it.
The imagination which operates on the body 
With regard to the person who has attained such a state, and is thus stably in the present, every imagination becomes equivalent to a reality.
That is why the ancient humans used to secrete this path, as they realized the risks posed by it to whoever was not in control of his own mind. In the reality of the now, every thing is possible. It is the ego which blocks possibilities and prevents things from “making themselves”. By transcending the ego, we will be enabled to let things manifest, whereupon it becomes possible to act directly on the body and suggest new ways of being. 109
Some traditional keys and hermetic correspondences aimed at better developing the symbol of the regulus or “gold of the sages”
Practical correspondence: consistent regularity of application 
The sensory element which develops it:  sixth sense
Compulsion/Defect to solve : inaccuracy, error
Colour of the Prism which best activates it: Orange
The art capable of developing it: Hermetic science









Sun
Proceeding further in the presence, beyond, in the vertical axis, time is no more. The symbol is in the obelisk.  The shadow cast by the obelisk slowly shortened from sunrise to noon. At noon there is no more shadow. “At first there was the sign; then came the symbol; in the now the era of reality opens110”. We are in the now, at the center. It is a different state.
What gets scattered in the universe through the continue presence at the elements of the tetractys plunges deeply, by virtue of an opposite process, into the pure inwardness of being. Under these conditions of consciousness, Dante devotes the last canto since 
Contingency, unfolded not to view
Upon the tablet of your mortal mold, 
is all depictur’d in the’ eternal sight. (Par. XVII, 37-39).

Vertical man – man as an obelisk
FURTHER NOTES REGARDING MAGNETISM
The Natural and Secret Physiology which lies behind Magnetism
 Magnetism has its own peculiar physiology. In order to develop it, a certain technology is applied to the development of specific states of consciousness, which only symbols are able to describe in full.  These states belong to man since his very inception, and are firmly linked to his own Nature. 111
In order to be fundamentally effective, the thought must be consistent with our will, and, from a physiological point of view, it must express itself in a coherent manner both at the level of the cerebro-spinal system and of the sympathetic nervous system. Succinctly put, the entire organism has to function in a coordinated fashion. The key words are Unification, or Coherence. The concept of “coherence” is endowed with a particular importance even from the modern quantistic point of view. Recent researches have indeed showed the self-inducement, by meditation, of a gamma type synchronization, which takes place during one’s mental practice.  Other studies assume that this state of coherence might play an essential role in the origination of “non-local” phenomena which can be categorized as “extrasensorial”. 112 
The vertical
In this connection, an essential element is represented by the vertical line of the human spinal chord (In our tradition, the power of the vertical is symbolized by the following symbol E). This alignment corresponds to a sound functioning of our vegetative system, to our biological and natural self, and to the development of our abilities to be “present” to all the dimensions of our being.
The bone marrow functions as channel for the thought, by conveying it to the nervous system, while it simultaneously sends the information back to the brain. Along the spinal chord one comes across specific energy areas113  which, once they are activated in a coordinated fashion, allow energy to manifest.114  These points further correspond to the colours of the visible spectrum, and might be symbolically viewed as being united with the white light at the top. 
In order to achieve optimal results, the purely organic and cellular part of the being ought to be subjugated to the control of the will115, which is likewise a manifestation of thought, and the one issuing commands to material, physical and implentation-related aspects. The base of the column is the departure point of energy which, once it is developed, will enable us to move in that direction. Such energy is symbolically related to the sign of the Aries (?), as a means of underlining the primal force which dwells in it. The notion of “ascending energy” is analogous to the one that is found in the Indian concept of kundalini.
The foundational energy
 The foundational energy, therefore, has a sexual basis. 116 Just as sexuality is dual, the symbology reminds us of the presence of two dimensions within such force: Positive and negative, masculine and feminine. This pair (depicted through the symbol which unites two opposite points   , the fire ? and the water ?, ida and pingala in the terminology of the Eastern tradition) denotes the basic magnetic state. In the Eastern tradition, the third one in the hierarchy of power (called sushunna, the central channel through which the “secret fire” passes) reunites the two once  it is developed. At that point, the influence is more potent.
The caduceus
A Western symbol endowed with such power is the  caduceus, which shows two snakes wrapping themselves up around a rod. Such symbol (adopted among others by various ordors of medical practitioners) channels attention to the solar and lunar (= masculine and feminine) energies, which wrap themselves up around the central column. The central staff is the path of balance, the way which can allow us to fuse and dominate both energies and exercise a true volition.117  
What is meant by volition is a will to act, to manifest. Thought, therefore, by allowing participation from the nervous system in order to act, resorts to this through the will, as an agent capable of animating matter.  118
If we desire such process to be complete, it is necessary to establish a link with breathing. It is necessary to unblock the breathing processes which are limited by inadequate movements of the chest. The wings of the hermetic caduceus clearly refer to the ellement air  ? which needs to be activated. 
Breathing is both the way in which we set our organism into motion and put it in a healthy state, and the way which is connected to the aerial stage of the expansion of one’s inner being. What we in fact do is to first reawaken the cerebral functions and harmonize the various organic functions, by gaining consciousness of our biological self (seen in the vertical E ), and, at a later stage, to arrive at a particular type of excitement and natural expansion, which can be indicated by the symbol of “spring” ? 119, where matter F appears as a state of energetic excitement (symbol aries ?). Such expansion is additionally symbolized by the “igneous quicksilver” r, where the two little horns at the top of the symbol denote the arietine stength (?) which has become connected to the mercurial principle (A), thereby vivifying such principle (The mercurial principle symbolizes our subtle being, which usually lies “unconscious” in its “watery” form. 120 We have basically attained a “reawakening” of our unconscious being). 
Lastly, a fundamental element for the release is self-perception, being able to “will” not only with the  spirit, but even with the body, which is symbolically and practically centralized in the heart (?).
This tipe of perception takes place “hic et nunc” (= in the present), whence the necessity to focus on the centre and on the total reintegration of oneself (which is represented by the “wheel of the elements” 121). 
Being present to ourselves is an indispensable requirement both at the beginning and at the end of the work. Such a state might thus be described as a gradually escalating “densification”.
The fullest unification of man’s energies is a reintegration which cannot occur other than in the now. Put it in another words, the more we are present, the more it is possible to increase magnetism by gathering again the strengths possessed by the different parts of ourselves.122 Even in this connection, a quantistic explanation will stress the fact that no state of “coherence” is possible if this gets dispersed in the environment.
The whole is more than its parts (Aristotle)
It is accordingly important to develop consciousness. Consciousness is additionally found in the utilized “tools”. An important role is thus played by one’s sight and voice, and by self-training in that regard. 123 The voice, too, has the capacity to “reawaken” suitable states in onself.
Natural Elements, Harmony and Magnetism
In order to fully actualize the development we have indicated here above, an essential requirement is to possess beforehand a state of health and organic harmony. So long as, indeed, the bodily and mental balance is not attained, the efforts of the individual person cannot be channelled and convoyed in any effective manner. The magnetism which is helpful in life cannot but manifest sporadically in an unbalanced organism. Sane magnetism entails that one should dominate both polarities (“active” fire ? and “passive” water ?). This implies in itself the need for such a state of balance. The essential factor is thus to ultimately manage to create in oneself a central and harmonious state (the quintessence ?), which is capable of explicating its own potential in the present.  Given that these thoughts often cause a psychosomatic influence, true harmony, for it to be so, requires one to separate (separatio) the action produced by such thoughts and by our mental images on the body. If we want to possess harmony on an enduring basis and to effectively develop magnetism as an ongoing reality, we have to move out of automatic processes, to succeed, that is, in living in the reality.
We ought to make sure that we are not influenced by our mental images, and that, on the contrary, we are the ones who create and participate in the reality.
Other traditions: Egypt and Persia
There are some resemblances between the secret magnetic techniques that have been practiced in the Western world and traditions which especially originated in Egypt, where the eye (which is related to the active principle) was highly regarded.
 Persia, too, is interested by such phenomenon. We have indeed drawn additional exercises from some secret traditions which first saw the light of day in that region. Persia was in fact home to the tradition of the  “Magians”, which represented a specific caste in the Zoroastrian world. 
The fact that an evolved knowledge of Magnetism was particularly diffuse in Persia is further attested to by the Latin poet Catullus. The nations who inhabited those regions, in fact, had given rise to a system for the  development of man, which was founded on fully natural methods: Breathing (element air ?), light (linked to the principle fire ?), nutrition (element water linked to the taste ?), the use of the body, muscular tensions (element earth ?), and the voice.
The far-reaching validity of the methods thus utilized justified their subsistence over many centuries. We are dealing with extremely potentizing methodologies. In particular, a monastery on the boder with the Himalaya (Al Kharman) used to safeguard some of these methodologies across several centuries. At the beginning of the last century, these methods met with the Western analytical spirit in France and Germany. That analytical spirit managed to extract from such methodologies their constituent elements 124, which we have incorporated into our own practice with very successful results. They represent branches of one and the same reality. When those branches are joined together, they allow us to understand the complete system which we are pursuing, by linking it both to the results obtained by the most modern neurosciences and to a specific path, the path of the  presence.
The stages of growth
Whatever forms man’s natural environment might assist him in his development. This is something which also leads to a psycho-physiological harmonization. Harmonization is progressively accompanied by an ever increasing energization which enables us to “rise in level”, until we achieve mastery over the polarities and we reach a higher state. This higher state of exaltation and control, linked to the body while simultaneously being beyond it, is what lies at the root of the most powerful magnetism. For one to fully understant such path, it must be framed within a way of global reawakening.
Magnetism and the development in man of the path of presencing
The scheme which is set out here under shows the development steps of magnetism within the ambit of a path of presencing.
The advice we wish to put forward is meant to avoid “wasteful slags” in the process of moving firstly from the black, i.e. the zero-ideationalism.  We can then begin to develop ourselves. This is a work which each one of us has to carry out individually. By so doing, many abilities will be spontaneously reawakened, and the relevant person will naturally progress toward the objectives he wishes to pursue.

FIRST LINE FROM THE BOTTOM (the quaternary air ? fire ? earth ? water ?): This line represents the foundational elements.125 The goal consists in harmonizing them while being immersed in the reality. The work to be  carried out on the first line takes one to a “quintessence”, one that accordingly symbolizes the state of harmony with one’s own human nature, which is an inescapable requirement for a thorough self-fulfilment, and which is only capable of being obtained by operating in a practical and insightful way, and by thrusting aside excessive conceptualizations. An effective effort of vigilant attention to oneself and  to one’s own senses, which ought to be resolved upon wisely and pursued consistently,  is needed. The four basic elements  (water, air, fire, earth) correspond in fact even to the senses (water ? = taste, air ? = sense of smell, fire ? = sight, earth ? = touch) which ought to be open and developed, as a first indispensable step, for the sake of progressing in any phase of the work. The symbol of the capricorn ? (which symbolizes steadfast constancy) refers to the attitude which is needed at the start of the process. Constancy is required. The departure point for self-fulfilment is being present in the reality.  The more we develop this gift of the “presence”, the more we can then begin to separate emotions, thoughts and body, and to be more present to our essence, which  symbolically represents the point . in the middle of the cross +. The cross might even stand for a man with his arms stretched. The “quintessence” represents the centre of the cross. This self-centralizing is also the foundation of eurythmia. It also means to be “in the realtity”. Knowing the elements is a sensory task. Given that, at the beginning, the elements are present both in man and outside him, this is also the genesis of the reunification with Nature. Such an attitude results in the birth of an inward and subtle element, which is definable as a kind of internal strength, one that we can begin to describe as "our gold" ?.
SECOND LINE (The ternary of “active principle of self-consciousness  ” D, quicksilver or passive principle A body G): This line represents man in his usual extrication. The average man is in fact dominated by the polarities and by his ego. In order for him to develop, he must begin to discover and feed his “secret fire”. At the beginning, this fire is hardly accessible, as it is blocked by the “earth”. The work which had been previously carried out on the elements, however, now begins to enable our release of this force.
In order to better understand what has been just stated, we might conceive man, in everyday life, as consisting of spirit, soul and body. The spirit is an active principle and should be a light. This light, however, is blocked by the “habits” of thinking which condition our existence. Imprisoned by the earth, it thus turns into ego, which lies at the root of the word “egotism”. This selfishness has to be transcended by a greater connection to the whole. 
In this connection, hermetic wisdom compares the first discovery of this consciousness or fire in man to the extraction of the mineral sulphur (=I) from the ground. This mineral potentially contains the principle fire which ought to be kindled, and represents it with the triangle of the fire, below which a cross D is placed as a way of indicating the evolution of consciousness that ought to be accomplished. The  Cosmopolitan says, ‘Suplhur is Saturn’s prisoner’.126  Saturn (= ?) is the earth, the things from which our light must be drawn, the linear time 127 from which our consciousness should be delivered.128 
DIGGING: We must accordingly dig inside ourselves, and attain consciousness of our perceptions, of what we see, hear, listen to. We soar above the automatic condition. We develop “presence”; we must carefully avoid letting ourselves be dominated by outbursts of anger or inappropriate reactions. We then begin to  “extract” consciousness, being our active principle, from the “mine”.

CLEANING:  Cleaning bears the connotation of separating the parts which have stuck together, that is, the instances of self-identification with the external world which makes it so arduous for us to truly be ourselves.  How many people identify themselves with their private car, their physical appearance, their own body? We start from the opaque peel of the sulphuric nucleus, that is, from our identifying ourselves with the thousands of outer appearances which are assumed by life, and which we have superimposed on our being. These forms of self-identification are also the causative agents of tensions and rigidities which pile up inside our physical being. They are often the cause of problems that are even painful.  Let us remove and dissolve them, and let us then make the “salty layers” 129, purged of the mud which obfuscates them, transparent. 
This expression denotes the acquisition of an increasingly fuller awareness  of the body. It might then act as a supporting aid for higher states. Our physical state then discloses itself as being in a dynamic relationship with the universe, an integral part of it, and even a vehicle to become acquainted with it.130 
To put it basically in a summarized fashion, in order for an authentic development to take place, presence to one’s own self must continue to go on unabated at this level in a developed and diffuse form, by means of transcending the excessive polarizations of quotidian life.
Most of the people are in a state of imbalance, tilted too much towards either one of these principles or another. Some people are too physical, others are excessively dominated by emotions, while for yet another  group of them, their active capacity becomes excessive selfishness or a desire to dominate. What should we accordingly do? Essentially, we should move ahead with the previously commenced work of self-consciousness by seeking to be present.
Exploring this path might be read from left to right as a suquential rediscovery of natural and biological sensation which reveal themselves, obviously after  having established the stillness of the elements. The point of departure consists in the active principle of consciousness, the spiritual principle of man  (symbolized by D). We will then be able to notice that, by means of vigilance (which is related to the active  al principle ?), while awareness of the body is constantly retained, it is possible to discern at first a recovery of balance and later a re-alignment which is due to the relinquishment of useless tensions; gradually, one consciously realizes that self-identification with the problems of life is useless, precisely like certain bodily tensions, too, are devoid of any benefit. Accordingly, an ever growing discovery of one’s own centrality will ensue. What we then acquire is a sensation of energy encompassing a first emergence of magnetism (meaning by such word the development of an inward power), which is adequately capable of being indicated by the afore-explained sign of the vertical which is symbolized by E. At the inception, it is a  magnetism of polarity (that is, one which is in part still dominated by oppositions. If we want to provide a practical illustration, we might say that the relevant person will be active and enthusiastic, but still required to develop understanding and sensibility). After a short while, having moved on along this path, one shifts however to yet a new stage. By pursuing our work of creating awareness of the body, we eventually succeed in relinquishing even the useless processes of identification (which are mere mental “activities” that inter alia cast their reflection on the mentalizations of the body, i.e. useless tensions). At that stage, one reaches a particular state of perception of the body “which is not susceptible of verbal expression”. It is a form of attaining a higher consciousness.  The word self loses any meaning, and one succeeds in arriving at the perception of the body as something which is. This second level additionally corresponds to an increased capacity to firmly entrench our presence in the now. By going on with the process of integration, we naturally ascend to the superior level.

THIRD LINE (The Binary, being an encounter with the polarities). This level corresponds to the higher levels of being. It corresponds, in other words, to the development and integration of the “subtle body”, the energetic part of ourselves, as well as to the overcoming  of polarities. If we were to describe it technically, we would mention that what happens is the encounter between consciousness D and subtle body A, and the first transcendence of the polarities . (Essentially speaking, we also develop our sensibility and we conjoin it to the active principle). We thus reach the “aerial” stage (represented by the symbol  r), characterized by increased magnetic potentialities and by an element of “intuition” and “intelligence” in our acting. Vitality and an increase in consciousness, in fact, give rise to a type of exaltation in which one begins to gain access to a different and vaster dimension. This state is defined by the expression “Magnesia of the sages” (silver) , which shows qualities of clairvoyance. It is a “phosphoric” state . The practicing subject displays gifts of “lucidity” and intelligence. This power is capable of exteriorizing results at a therapeutic level by “attracting” the result. It is a being higher than our own selves, which is energized by breathing or other methods. If we then create and introduce therein a passion, we will get an electrical “flame”. It is what takes place in a state of (hypnotic) charm, where the practicing subject is struck by his own imagination. There is, however, yet a higher path. By pursuing the same line, in fact, we will additionally integrate coropreality into such exaltation. The simultaneous conscious awareness of the body, the subtle space and the physical space (which is an exercise to be developed by focusing essentially on the heart ?), hence a second meeting of polarities, permits our attainment of a consciousness of “self- not-self” in which we realize the fact that we only “dream” about what we call “night vigil”. We are inside the reality of dream and, at the same time, we are outside it. The relevant gift is therefore wisdom, and the talent we are able to develop is therapeutic ability (being the first elixir). At this level, it appears as if instructions come from the outside, whereas the power of the sun ? is absolutely calm.
FOURTH LINE (The Unity, the gold ?). The last level falls outside the ambit of this book. It is a level of objectivity of things, of pure consciousness. 
The Spirit of Magnetism
In order to penetrate this subject, an attitude of forward thrust, openness, transcendence of the ordinary self and connection with the universe is required. “Magnetism empowers one to perceive a new order of things. It conveys us to a new universe and enlarges the space of our knowledge, of which we might define it as the key. In the ocean of motion which life consists in, it is the route enabling us to push forward amid the different currents. Moving in this direction further means to open a new door. We must accordingly possess the courage to desire to know. It is not, indeed, a technique which is solely founded on reason. It demands, instead, the entirety of our mind, our body and our individuality. It restores man to his own self, which explains why it has the capacity to become the true science of our daily life.”131 
Extraordinary Effects and Mesmerismus®
The power which lies at the heart of magnetism is also the force that originates many extraordinary effects. This pracice, indeed, often leads one to face the occurrence of “synchronicity”.132 In truth, even during his first steps, the practicing subject witnesses the occuurence of such phenomena as:
Mental Suggestion
Concordance of thoughts
Foretelling Ability 
Telesthesia
Other aspects
Besides the immediately beneficial effects, Magnetism has thus the capacity to assist the development of phenomena which cast a new light on man. These phenomena, that can be observed by our senses and analyzed by our reason, last through Magnetism for a sufficiently long period that enables us to come to know and describe them. This, in fact, might be actually deemed to be the best method of realizing them.
Man rediscovers his own completeness; his faculties are now developed; his instinct surpasses at such stage the instinct of ordinary animals; the senses turn incredibly sharper; and even additional phenomena, more astonishing still, take place, phenomena which can hardly be attributable to such ordinary impressions as distance actions and perceptions. 
Rather, they probably denote forgotten faculties which, by us drawing close to nature once more, we manage to reappropriate. We are going to have a pragmatic attitude in that regard. The interesting aspect of the phenomena does not truly lies in what they are in themselves; their usefulness rather consists in their ability to help the comprehension of this powerful discipline. In other words, the importance of such phenomena lies in the fact that they distend our mind. Whenever we observe these phenomena, we are indeed capable of intuitively feeling the existence of a vaster dimension. In this manner, we can practice this way in a constantly more effective form. 
These are experiences which have always been in existence, and which, in the past, have been recounted by Plato, Aristotle, Fichte and Hegel among others. They represent, moreover, experiences which can be easily and quickly ascertained, especially when we are part of a group. Indeed, right from the very first exercises relating to Magnetism we notice the truthful actualization of scraps of telesthesia, mental suggestion, and communication occurring at an unconscious level. In some instances, we have noticed how it truly appears as if thought become reflected in the sensorium commune (the inward sense), precisely as an image gets reflected on a mirror. A deeper truth is ensconced in these phenomena. They disclose to us, as was stated by  Hegel (who witnessed them in his own times), "the sentient soul in its immediacy ".
The following scheme perfectly delineates the moment at which each of the various faculties develop.


Elixir
Crisopea
Lucidity – Sixth sense
Enhancement – Therapeutic Magnetism – Persuasive Magnetism
Water/Understanding/Attractive quality – Air/Sensibility/Charisma – Fire/Prophetic presentiment/ Insightfulness – Earth/Intuition of the meaning
To recapitulate: By purifying the elements and increasing perceptiveness, we firstly realize the development of the gifts of understanding (water ?), sensibility (element air ?), prophecy (that is, a foreseeing ability) (fire ?), and intuition of the hidden meanings ?. 
By going up the ladder, we will then discover the enhancement of man and his faculties, and the first stage of “animal magnetism”. Our energy is in fact greater. This is related to the reawakening of our vertical energy (nitrum E). That is subsequently followed, as a result of a further development of consciousness (symbol D), by the development of a therapeutic ability, owing to a second “natural magnetism”. Lastly, one gets, at the level of balanced corporeality (salt G), the development of “personal magnetism”.
At yet a higher level, we encounter an additional exaltation. As stated by Aristotle, “the spirit thrusts itself forward, moves beyond the circle of cause and effect, grabs the whole more speedily, and entrusts it to imagination in order to discover the future result”. We might say in a few words that we witness the development of the gift of a higher intelligence, escorted by a capacity to “understand better”, as well as by “lucidity” and an irradiation which is nicely encapsulated by the symbol of the “Magnesia” .
By getting connected thereafter to corporeality (that is, to the wheel of the elements  ?) and, by “centralizing” ? consciousness, one acquires even greater wisdom, as well as the gift of how to “hear” the messages broadcast by a higher dimension.
The final level synthesizes the previous ones. It is the level of the sun ?.
In order to learn and experiment, the practicing subject should be equipped with a feel for searching for the new and for transcending his own “self”. He must want to surprise himself and experience wonderment. That is also what we demand from whoever reads this book: Courage, curiosity and attention. In fact, although in reality every one personally witnesses the veracity of such experiences in life, some people believe that these things are impossible. The truth, however, is that whoever declares that is afraid of the new and seeks to remain stuck in his static mental world. To quote Shakespeare: "There are more things in the heaven and the earth than in any kind of philosophy".

Further Annotations
Happiness and Presence
The problem of human happiness is intimately related to the problem of our cenesthesia, and thus to the special manner, the “tonality”, the “colouring”, in which sensations are received by the organism. This manner, therefore, is in turn linked to our specific temperament. Body and mind are always strictly interconnected. Sadness derives from the mental state, and always consists in a lack of adherence to reality, in other words, an absence of adaptation to sensory perception. 
There are two paths which become available at this point: 
1. Changing one’s temperament
2. Learning how to disconnect the mind-body union which ensures that a given temperament reflects itself on the body (being a process which is also called “separation of the levels”)
What is entailed by the former situation is to operate on the temperament by acting upon our body both through suitable physical therapies and through direct intervention in the spirit via a psychological re-education. The main cure we recommend, however, is a different one. The man who is hardly ever unhappy possesses the power to summon up, as a help he can draw from in every situation, the qualities that characterize other temperaments as well, the power, that is, to balance up his own self and, at the same time, erect a barrier against thoughts which happen to be either useless or of indifferen value. The said barrier consists in the ability to live in the now. The center of the wheel ? is in fact the place where the elements touch each other. It is likewise the central point which corresponds to the essence of man: The present moment.
Let us now discover how we might access it. 
Vivification of the Symbols of the elements
A powerful method to develop, combine and transcend the various temperaments is to enliven symbols:
? fire and heat, which can be known by paying attention to the heat of the body. The power of such exercise can be further potentized once it is connected with light. We can observe that such type of attention naturally tends to “loosen” many emotions and bodily blocks. It is enough to feel the heat of the body and simultaneously perceive a white light. 
? water, which can be known by directing attention to the horizontal direction provided by life, to the assimilation it exercises, and by further directing attention to the weight of the body. It is also the symbol of female sex and receptiveness.  
? air, which can be known through relaxation exercises which channel attention to rhythmic breathing, and other ones aimed at creating space for our own selves. 
? earth, which can be known via exercises to create tension and relaxation in the body.
The Linguistic-Symbolical Methodology
In order to be able to rise to higher degrees and reach the quintessence, eternal wisdom teaches us that the oppositions which keep the elements separate have to be resolved: Water must turn igneous, fire must become liquid, earth must be devoid of weight, and air must acquire solidity.133  This modus operandi based on juxtaposing words which seemingly belong to different aggregates, coupled with “breaking the blocks”, might also be carried out at a verbal level. It is another practical way of gaining access to the quintessence. Words, in fact, represent a congealed reality, the actualization of a meaning which is attributed to a sound. They consist in “intellectual knowledge” which obligatorily unfolds itself in a physical time of dualitities and sequence of moments. They futher denote an “inertia”. 
They are the reflection of the outside world on man, on things which are in a state of motion.
Words are things which exist in a dimension of spatial and temporal succession. Average man is no more than the exteriorization of the language he uses, and of the forms he creates. He is the man-machine who is additionally restricted to a few movements. Man, however, has in himself also the capacity to be reawakened to a less frozen dimension.
The shift we should make is thus one from “division into moments” to “simultaneity”. Words, indeed, originate a three-dimensional time and a place that is the frozen outward projection on the part of our subjective being, which in itself is unique and represents the “field” onto which the images that words consist in are screened. 
Through that shift, we will then move onto a different state, which is a state of “motion”. Attention shifts to the level of the heart 134, which is also the hub of the heel, the center of the person who creates such images. 
The process consists in breaking up what has coagulated in a given form, and in joining what is separated; solve et coagula (= breaking up and joining together).
Exercise 20135: Linguistic solve et coagula 
Think about two concepts which you deem to be “opposite”. The solve et coagula phase will then operate on the barriers which interpose themselves between “congealed” realities, that are “broken up” in order to rejoin them later (You should accordingly ask yourselves: Are both a and b possible?). We will then proceed to the phase “neither a nor b”. This phase is a different mode of disconnection, one leading to the being which contains in itself both a and b, as well as the other forms it might assume. The last step of the exercise entails us going ahead with the activity of breaking up and rejoining all the predetermined combinations of forms (that is, words). 
What we aim to regain is the living word, that is, reality. We have noticed how, in its simplicity, this exercise is one of the most effective ones. It is also one that can be implemented “secretly” so as to avert problems. I often resort to this exercise by immersing the various linguistic combinations in a dialogue.  We can change the “preferences”. The mind of the listener unconsciously processes the different pairs and, without him realizing it, a change is already produced, a change that is capable of reaching completion later through the means of recourse to additional techniques. 
Static Knowledge of the four elements C
Let us now implement a physical method. 
Exercise 21: Physicality of the elements
While you lie down, you should begin to stretch the muscles of the body ?, and you should then relax them ?. At this point, you should pay attention to the air exiting the lungs ?, and imagine to discern two columns that come out of the nostrils. Lastly, you should redirect your attention to the heat ? and to the weight ? of the body. Take care to often shift your attention between these essential elements. The final step is to slowly return to your state of normal wakefulness. 
Many people to whom we teach this exercise subsequently inform us that reality appears to them to be more vivid, and that colours have a more immediate impact. In truth, reality usually seems to us to be pale and lifeless on account of our “perceptive habit” which causes our mind to become progressively used to sensory inputs. This is the same reason why time seems to us to be shorter than it is. When, for instance, we retrace our steps through a particular road, the latter appears to us to be shorter during the return trip, as a result of the lesser number of the items of information which our mind extracts from the environment.
Dynamic knowledge of the four elements
Exercise 22: Dynamic knowledge 
While you are walking, you should pay heed to the weight of your body on the earth ?, to the bones that support your structure ?, to your breathing, especially by your chest ?, and to the heat of your body ?. 
By doing that, you will notice how the meaning of the various symbols clearly unfolds itself to your beings. You would in other words be approximating “intuitive knowledge”.
The separation of the Elements
By pressing forward perseveringly, the first phase in the process of “separation of the elements” will take place. What we mean by the said term is the capacity to perceive the sensory realities ?, emotions ?, actions ?,and thoughts ?, as being realities which belong to different dimensions. 
Some exercises inducing a state of presence are particularly useful for attaining this result of “separating the elements”.
For example, a very simple method to inaugurate and develop such a state is by gradually increasing the presence to one’s own body. In order for you to attain such objective, you should constantly maintain awareness of one part of your own selves. This extremely simple exercise yields very powerful results. In that manner, you begin to be conscious and thus to prevent emotional states, thoughts and so on from becoming confused with the body. 
Exercise 23 Continuous presence
Every day you should maintain, as long as possible, awareness of one part of the body, whether you are talking, moving around, etc.
Enforcing such a division will lead, step by step, to the ability to “break the automatic mechanisms” which relate emotions to external elements, thoughts to emotions, and images to actions136. The symbol of such a separation is the cross of the elements + which is situated inside the symbol of the wheel of the elements we have seen earlier. 

“Separating the elements”in terms of a quantistic vision
Modern quantistic research, too, might lend significance to the concept of “separating the elements”. The being, in fact, is something alive and in motion. In terms of quantistic language, it might be regarded as a "coherent" superimposition of elements, each of them capable of self-manifestation.  Every person is multidimensional, beginning with the way the brain itself functions, as brain coordinates many different sub-systems. 
Our perception of the world, for instance, is simultaneously the following: 
1. The totality of the visual, audial, tactile and internal kinaesthetic perceptions
2. The totality of our moods, which are in turn linked to the various endocrine glands 
3. The totality of how the various organs feel
4. Additional realities.
Every person, therefore, is a whole. What happens, however, is that we simplify reality and decide to perceive only one part of what we are. We might become absorbed by our thoughts, whereupon we fail to perceive our emotions. Yet this process also materializes, for example, when we decide that one part of us is “fine” whereas the other part is “not fine”; when, in other words, we reject one part of us. Repressing one part of our own selves leaves us with a limited self and an equally limited perception, since we are a whole and we cannot therefore relinquish any one part of ourselves.137
We term such process "collapsing the levels", alternatively, “reducing the states of perception of reality".
The key is then found in attention and awareness. The more we cause attention to escalate, the more these levels become transparently clear and we accordingly discover new perceptive dimensions of the infinity of the real.
The collapse of the wave function and the imbalance of health
A collapse into one invariable direction on the part of the wave function in our life is what is termed imbalance. This imbalance consists in a lopsided “reduction” of the variety which the world is characterized by.  
This concept carries certain implications for one’s health as well. 
Each one of the elements is in fact a form of directionality on the part of nature, a perceptive direction which nature takes. To say that at a given point there is an excess presence of one element is tantamount to asserting that this leading element causes our perception to collapse and engenders an imbalance. 
It is the same as seeing too much from one eye and too little from the other. Reality becomes disfeatured. 
Balance, on the other hand, is wellbeing, which ought to be understood in this context as signifying harmony. 
Phrased differently, it is not possible to increase or reduce an element without at the same time modifying the whole. If one decreases an element, harmony is lacking. 
As Heraclitus put it: “The harmonious structure of the world depends on opposite tensions, as is the case with the bow or the lyre”.
The theory of the 4 elements is a map having its basis in the organs of the body, and thus helps us harmonize it. 
It enables us to understand the implied order while it manifests in every individual at the level of health and temperaments.
How the “separation of the levels” impacts on the way time is perceived
One of the first effects of the separation of levels is the inception of a change in the perception of time. Time appears to be “more tranquil”, as the number of impressions which reach the brain simultaneously, without mutual superimposition on one another, is increased. Whereas, during a state of focalized attention, sensory impressions reciprocally blur with each other, what occurs instead when we separate the levels is that we live in the reality in a more intense fashion. 
Exercise 24 The cross +
As stated before, every symbol is also a reality. One specific exercise, too, is linked to the symbol of the cross: It consists in the oscillations (in other words presence) by the different areas of the head (right – left, backward – forward). Such exercise might even be carried out by walking and noticing the oscillations, right and left, backward and forward, by the head138. By so doing, one experiences a very potent cerebral stimulation throughout the different dimensions, and even mental efficiency is improved. In this exercise, therefore, we come once more across a symbol of the totality which is the full qualifying attribute  of the presence.

Index
FOREWORD	3
Consciousness and Reintegration	5
Exercises on the focal point	9
The only way of attaining the result	13
Beginning the Energetic Ascent	16
Phoenix and man	18
Non-local Effects	19
Increase of energy – “Aerial” level (?)	20
Secrets for reawakening one’s nervous potential	21
Man as the fundament of perceptions	21
Energy and Personal Magnetism, Influence and Vitality	26
Energy and an increase in Cosciousness	29
Increased energy and expansion of the sense of time	31
The virtuous cycle	32
The two methods for slowing down time	35
Time and creativity	36
The increase of energy and the “Great Cooking”	36
The phases which the Cooking goes through during the higher stage of the Great Work	39
Two-vase techniques and the development of the “ferment” in those techniques that are based on ”vital energy”	41
A simple operational method	43
Magnetism and sexual thrust	47
The reawakening of energies through the physical act	50
The denuding of the power of life	53
Symbolism	55
Breaking the gold	56
Transcending utilitarianism and staying in the now	56
The two regimes	59
Some Practical Techniques	63
The ”gold of the Sages”. The regulus or “small king”	67
Athanor and Tan Tien: The three levels	69
The path of energy and the flower	72
The magnet	73
Note	74
Transcending the ego and the usual time	76
The “White” and the “Red” (albedo and rubedo)	78
Man’s rebirth	78
Albedo,Exaltation and Spiritual Perception	80
?: “Lunar” Higher Principle	80
A traditionally related gift:  Intelligence	83
Mental lucidity	83
Utilization of light in order to excite the brain	84
Related sense: Seeing beyond time	88
Expansion of consciousness – Self-germination and “magical body”  - The path to the elixir	89
The one and the periekon	91
Straight Action	94
?: The regulus and the I sulphur (or gold) of the sages	94
Correlated sense: Sixth sense	95
The imagination which operates on the body	96
Sun	98
FURTHER NOTES REGARDING MAGNETISM	99
The Natural and Secret Physiology which lies behind Magnetism	99
The vertical	100
The foundational energy	101
The caduceus	102
Natural Elements, Harmony and Magnetism	105
Other traditions: Egypt and Persia	106
The stages of growth	107
Magnetism and the development in man of the path of presencing	108
The Spirit of Magnetism	117
Extraordinary Effects and Mesmerismus®	117
Further Annotations	123
Happiness and Presence	123
Vivification of the Symbols of the elements	124
The Linguistic-Symbolical Methodology	124
Static Knowledge of the four elements C	127
Dynamic knowledge of the four elements	127
The separation of the Elements	128
“Separating the elements”in terms of a quantistic vision	129
The collapse of the wave function and the imbalance of health	130
How the “separation of the levels” impacts on the way time is perceived	131
Index	133
Where to learn more?	137



Where to learn more?
Our school organizes periodically training in Mesmerism and Magnetism. We do both personal coaching as group training.

Write us at 
info@neurolinguistic.com

Website:
http://www.mesmerismus.info 





	

