During his residence in Paris Mesmer was involved in continual disputes with the doctors. This was neither his intention nor his desire. But the attitude of the Medical Faculty of Paris towards him was such that he was compelled in his own defence to waste valuable time in unprofitable debate.

It was impossible for the medical profession of Paris to ignore Mesmer as, no doubt, it would like to have done. His reputation had preceded him, and it was of that awkward kind which springs from results obtained instead of being founded upon honours and degrees which may be secured through favouritism or purchased by hard cash. Therefore, at first, the Faculty thought it wise at least to appear interested and friendly.

The President of the Academy of Sciences, M. Leroi, proposed that Mesmer should demonstrate the usefulness of his discovery by treating a selected number of cases, chosen by a Committee of the Royal Society of Medicine, composed of Drs. Daubenton, Desperriers, Mauduyt, Andry, Tessier, and Vicq d'Azyr.

This offer Mesmer declined. His object, he said, was to induce the Faculty to try his system for themselves and not to set himself in opposition to them. He wrote to M. Leroi : " My principal object is to demonstrate the existence of a physical agent hitherto unobserved, and not to array against my discovery medical men whose personal interests would necessarily induce them to injure my cause, and even my person. It is as a natural philosopher myself, and not as a physician, that I call on you, men of science, requesting you to observe natural phenomena and to pronounce on my system."

Wishing, however, to work in conjunction with the Faculty, he made a counter-proposition. He asked that twenty patients should be selected by the Committee of the Royal Society of Medicine, comprising cases of all kinds, equally severe; half of these to be treated by the Faculty according to the old and approved methods, and the other half by himself. The division was to be made by lot. Neither the Academy of Sciences nor the Royal Society of Medicine would listen to this proposition.

In May 1778, weary of what he called the " puerile objections " of the doctors, Mesmer selected several bad cases and took them to his establishment at Creteil, six miles from Paris, first applying to the Royal Society of Medicine to examine and certify them. The Society sent two doctors for that purpose. But, on their arrival, they apparently mistrusted their skill in diagnosis, for they declined to make a report. The maladies chosen (epilepsy, paralysis, blindness, deafness) might, they said, be feigned.

Mesmer then applied to M. Vicq d'Azyr, Secretary of the Royal Society of Medicine, asking leave to present his patients before the whole Society for certification. " For," as he pertinently remarked, " men who thus doubt their own ability to ascertain the truth of a disease, would doubt still more when requested to pronounce on restoration to health." At the same time he enclosed certificates of independent members of the Faculty as to the genuineness of the diseases of his patients. His application was refused and the certificates returned unopened.

Hearing nothing further, Mesmer wrote again to M. Vicq d'Azyr, saying that he would proceed with the treatment, and hoping that, when the time came, the Society would not refuse to hold an inquiry. In August Mesmer wrote to M. Leroi. His patients, he said, were almost ready for inspection. The President of the Academy of Sciences took no notice. Nothing daunted, he again applied to M. Vicq d'Azyr, requesting the Royal Society of Medicine to examine his patients. The only reply was a curt refusal. Nothing remained for Mesmer to do but to publish the sworn statements of his patients and of his witnesses. The most interesting of these sworn statements is that of Charles du Hussay, Major of Infantry and Knight of the Royal and Military Order of St. Louis.

Major du Hussay had suffered from typhus in the Indies. He was a physical wreck when he consulted Mesmer, broken in mind and body. His statement is as follows :—

" After four years of useless experiments and the constant attendance of eminent physicians, among whom I can name several members of the Royal Society of Medicine of Paris, who personally know me and my case, I consented, as a last resort, to accept the proposition of Dr. Mesmer to try the proceedings of a method hitherto unknown. When I arrived at his establishment my head was constantly shaking, my neck was bent forward, my eyes were protruding from their sockets and greatly inflamed. my tongue was paralysed, and it was with the utmost difficulty that I could speak ; a perpetual and involuntary laugh distorted my mouth, my cheeks and nose were of a red purple, my respiration was very much embarrassed, and I suffered a constant pain between the shoulders ; all my body trembled and I staggered when walking. In a word, my gait was that of an old drunkard, rather than that of a man of forty. I know nothing of the means resorted to by Dr. Mesmer; but that which I can say with the greatest truth is that, without using any kind of drugs, or other remedy than ' Animal Magnetism,' as he calls it, he made me feel the most extraordinary sensations from head to foot. I experienced a crisis characterised by a cold so intense that it seemed to me that ice was coming out of my limbs ; this was followed by a great heat, and a perspiration of a very fetid nature, and so abundant at times as to cause my mattress to be wet through. The crisis lasted over a month ; since that time I have rapidly recovered, and now, after about four months, I stand erect and easy. My head is firm and upright, my tongue moves perfectly, and I speak as well as anyone. My nose and cheeks are natural, my colour announces my age and good health, my respiration is free, my chest has expanded, I feel no pain whatever, my limbs are steady and vigorous, I walk very quickly, without care and with ease. My digestion and appetite are excellent. In a word, I am perfectly free from all infirmities.

" I certify that this statement is in every particular conformable to truth. Given under my hand and seal, at Paris, the 28th of August, 1778.

Among the leading doctors of Paris, Mesmer had one firm friend in Dr. Deslon, a court physician of unprejudiced mind and wide reputation. Dr. Deslon firmly believed in Mesmer, and took a keen interest in his experiments. He was by no means satisfied with the attitude of the Royal Society of Medicine towards him, and persuaded him to make one more effort to gain their attention.

Mesmer therefore selected six new cases and asked the Royal Society of Medicine to examine them. Only three of its members, Drs. Bertram, Maloet, and Sollier, responded to his appeal. They did not deny the cures, but refused to certify them as conclusive. " Nature," they said, " often cures without the help of man." Mesmer thereupon begged these three to select some patients themselves. This they refused to do. They could not be present, they said, during the months of treatment, and therefore they could not be sure that the usual medicines were not given. Their faith in " the usual medicines " appears rather pathetic considered in conjunction with their belief that Nature often does the work popularly supposed to be done by the doctors.

Mesmer therefore formulated his theory in serie of aphorisms that we don't insert here in order to keep this article simple.

In any case these strange doctrines proved too much for the Royal Society of Medicine. Its members were in no mood to sit at the feet of Mesmer as he was able to cure patients NO OTHER METHOD WAS ABLE TO HEAL.
 On September 18th, 1780, they rejected them in full and pronounced a decree depriving any qualified doctor (" doctor-regent ") of his diploma who advocated or practised Animal Magnetism.

Few people know this, but this was a cohercitive action infringing the freedom of the doctors to choose their own cures.

This was a big hypocrisy and it was unfortunate for Mesmerism; but in the end has been still more unfortunate and awkward for the french Academy. To retrace their ground after so false a step, to own themselves in the wrong, to admit that if greater care had been bestowed, a modified, if not indeed an opposite, opinion might perchance have followed, would of course be painful to men of professional eminence. It would be tantamount to saying that they, the anatomists, tne physiologists par excellence, had been mistaken in their own vocation, and that ignorant and unprofessional parties had conducted them to the truth. The natural heart kicks against such condescension. Pride, mortified vanity, a fear of reproach, a dread of ridicule. 

Frederick Anthony Mesmer was born in Switzerland on the 23d of May 1734. He studied medicine at Vienna, where he obtained the degree of doctor, and settled as a physician. A marriage with a lady of fortune soon afterwards raised him above some of the cares which attach to the young medical practitioner.
From an early age, Mesmer is said to have manifested a love of the marvellous; and, in the year
1766, he published a dissertation, On the Influence of the Planets upon the Human Body. He assumed, that the influence operated by electricity; but finding that agent inadequate to the solution of all the phenomena, he afterwards abandoned it for magnetism. In 1773, upon the suggestion of Maximilian Hell, professor of astronomy at Vienna, he resorted to the use of the magnet, which he applied in the cure of various diseases. Ultimately he discovered that the magnetic rods employed by him were powerless, and that the healing power, whatever it might be, was resident in himself. The rods were accordingly abandoned, the effects being produced by certain passes.
Mesmer now began to assume a mysterious demeanour, and, in no small degree through his own folly, so great a prejudice was created against him, that in 1777 he departed from Vienna, and early in the following year made his appearance in Paris. There, besides making a convert of Dr. D'Eslon, he performed many remarkable cures in the class of distinguished persons, and his fame accordingly spread with great rapidity throughout the gay circles of that city. The members of the medical profession, however, set themselves in resolute opposition to Mesmer, and for a time he retired to Spa, but afterwards, upon the persuasion of his friends, returned to Paris.
A negotiation was attempted for the purchase of Mesmer s secret by the French Government; but this having failed, the sale was carried on to private individuals at the rate of one hundred louis a head. It was a condition of each sale that secrecy should be maintained; but this was broken through, and the knowledge of the facts propagated by Mesmer was soon widely diffused, with the disadvantage of having many corruptions grafted upon them according to the fancies of various individuals. The practice of Mesmer savoured in itself sufficiently of quackery, and some of his disciples seem to have followed it up in a still more foolish manner.
In 1784, the French Government issued a royal mandate to the medical faculty of Paris, requiring them to investigate the facts and the pretensions of the new doctrine. The bulk of the members of this famous commission had prejudged the question, and like too many of the medical men of our own time, were resolved that they would not be convinced. The name of the celebrated Franklin is attached to the Report that was issued, although it should not have been there, as he is said to have been indisposed at the time, and to have given little attention to what took place. It would serve little purpose at this time of day to expose the inconsistencies of this Report, and those who feel any curiosity on the subject will receive ample satisfaction by referring to the pages of Mr. Colquhoun.
There was one commissioner who refused to concur in the Report adopted by his brethren. Jussieu, a physician of the highest eminence, who devoted great attention to the investigation, published a special report of his own, presenting an entirely different view, and conveying an infinitely more favourable impression of the subject.
The blow struck by the French Commissioners did not entirely answer the expected purpose. The question still continued to excite a high degree of interest in that country, but the breaking out of the Revolution, and the wars which followed that event, turned the public attention in other directions.
The Marquis de Puysegur, one of the most intelligent of Mesmer's disciples, to whom the science is under deep obligations, was the first to describe the state of somnambulism. The Marquis, both at Paris and on his estate in the country, devoted himself with the utmost zeal to the propagation of the science;
and the system, as improved by him, was introduced into Germany in 1787, through the instrumentality of the celebrated physiognomist Lavater. Journals devoted to animal magnetism were established in Prance and Germany; and in those countries, as well as in Switzerland, the magnetic treatment has prevailed, more or less, for the last fifty years.
Meanwhile, Mesmer had retired to his native country, Switzerland, and his death took place on the 5th of March, 1815, at Meersburg, on the Lake of Constance. His last years were devoted to the practice of the magnetic treatment, for the benefit of the poor; and he exhibited his own belief in its efficacy as a remedy, by submitting to the treatment in his last illness, and is said to have experienced from it great relief.
Many men of the highest eminence on the Continent of Europe, despite the din of war around them, devoted a considerable degree of attention to Mesmerism, and in progress of time it began to be heard of in the works of the great German physiologists, Sprengel, Reil, Authenrieth, and others—names as well known on the Continent as those of Harvey or Hunter in Britain. In 1817, the practice of Mesmerism was by law ordered to be confined to the medical profession in the Prussian dominions; and in 1818 the Academy of Sciences at Berlin offered a prize of 3340 francs for the best treatise on Mesmerism. In Denmark, and even in Russia, about the same period, the subject was brought under investigation, and in the latter country a committee, appointed by the Emperor, declared it to be a most important agent. These things could not go on without challenging investigation in France, from whence the first report of a commission had emanated, and, accordingly, in the year 1826, a new commission of inquiry was appointed by the Royal Academy of Medicine of Paris. Various obstructions were thrown in the
path of the Commission, but at length, in 1831, the Report came forth, acknowledging to the full extent the truth of Mesmerism, and adducing a vast body of evidence in its behalf.
In Great Britain little was known of Mesmerism down to this period. The unfavourable report of the first French Commission was supposed to settle the question, and the unhappy wars which ensued deprived us, to a great extent, during many years, of the means of intercourse with the Continent. In 1828 and 1829, the late Mr. Richard Chenevix, a gentleman of large fortune and a Fellow of the Royal Society, exhibited experiments to many of the most eminent scientific men in England; but he was scarcely listened to, and, with the exception of Dr. Elliotson, no one seems to have cared for his labours. Mr. Chenevix published a series of papers, entitled "On Mesmerism, improperly denominated Animal Magnetism," in The London Medical and Physical Journal for 1829, and he was preparing a larger work for the press, but, unfortunately for the interests of science, he was called away by death in 1830.
In 1833, Mr. Colquhoun published a translation of the French Report of 1831, with a copious introductory preface. The manner in which his attention happened to be first called to the subject is not a little instructive. A medical friend of Mr. Colquhoun's, of high standing in Edinburgh, aware of that gentleman's extensive acquaintance with continental languages, was in the practice of sending him, from time to time, various French and German publications. Struck with the fact that these were almost all on animal magnetism, Mr. Colquhoun asked his friend one day why he kept sending him works on that particular subject. "Because I wish you to take it up," was the reply. "Surely," said Mr. Colquhoun in return, "it lies much more in your way, as a
medical professor, to do so;—this is a question for the physician and surgeon." The strange rejoinder was, "There is not a medical man in jBritain who will dare to take up this subject." Whatever may be thought of the pusillanimity of the medical profession, we cannot regret that circumstances should thus have led to the services of Mr. Colquhoun being secured in making Mesmerism known in this country. In 1836, Mr. Colquhoun published his his Revelata in two volumes, a work which exhibits a large extent of learning and research ;.and the translation of the Report of the French Commissioners may be consulted in the appendix to the second volume. The author was regarded by the bulk of men as an idle dreamer, or, at best, as a literary man amusing himself with a speculative subject; and little progress was made in opposition to the almost universal prejudice that was abroad.
In 1837, Baron Dupotet, who had practised Mesmerism in France, came over to this country; but his efforts were disregarded, until Dr. Elliotson took him by the hand. As has been already mentioned, Dr. Elliotson had witnessed the experiments of Mr. Chenevix, and was glad of an opportunity of renewing his acquaintance with the subject. The results were of the most successful description, many cures of a highly singular nature having been accomplished. The jealousy, however, of the medical profession was roused, and it was resolved that Mesmerism should, if possible, be put down. In consequence of insults, to which it was impossible to submit, Dr. Elliotson resigned, in 1839, his professorship in University College, London; and he ceased, at the same time, to be physician to the hospital. Had he not been a man of great independence of mind, he might have been compelled to succumb to the cabal raised against him. Not only did he sacrifice the emoluments derived from the hospital and the professorship, but his practice as a physician was, at least for a time, seriously injured. His large private fortune, however, happily enabled him to bid defiance to the efforts of his opponents with less inconvenience than might otherwise have been the case; and he continued his inquiries into Mesmerism despite the frowns of his brethren of the profession. The success which has attended Mesmerism as a curative agent in the hands of Dr. Elliotson, Mr. Braid, and others, will be alluded to in its proper place in a succeeding chapter.
In 1840, the Rev. Chauncy Hare Townshend, published his Facts in Mesmerism.* Many cases of a highly curious and instructive description are recorded in Mr. Townshend's volume, which forms a valuable contribution to the study of Mesmerism.
In 1841, M. La Fontaine, a French Mesmeriser, came over to this country, and by his visit paved the way for much of the success that has since attended the subject in the hands of others.
While in Manchester, towards the close of 1841, it so happened, that some of the conversaziones of M. La Fontaine were attended by Mr. Braid, a highly respectable medical practitioner of that town. Attracted by what he saw, the subject was taken up with the utmost zeal by Mr. Braid, and the fruits of his labours are to be found in the work entitled Neurypnology. Mr. Braid attempted to bring the question forward at the meeting of the British Association, held in Manchester in 1842 ; but let it never be forgotten, that his offer to read a paper, and to produce as many of the patients as possible, whose cases were referred to in proof of the curative agency employed, was contemptuously declined by the committee of the medical section Mr. Braid, we are glad to say, undaunted by this unworthy treatment on the part of his medical brethren, still continues to persevere in the Mesmeric, or, as he terms it, the hypnotic method of cure.
We have already alluded to the works published by Mr. Colquhoun; but the practical investigation of Mesmerism may, we believe, be said to have been first introduced into Scotland about the year 1839, by Mr. Dove, the same gentleman whose lectures, at a later period, assisted greatly in directing attention to the subject. Mr. Dove's experiments performed at that time were witnessed by Sir William Hamilton, and by Dr. Simpson,* Professor of Midwifery in the University of Edinburgh,—both of whom, it may be incidentally mentioned, are believers in Mesmerism,—as well as by others of scientific note. Soon afterwards Mr. Dove left Edinburgh, to enter upon a literary engagement in Glasgow; and the prosecution of the inquiry was abandoned by him for a time.
In the autumn of 1842, M. La Fontaine visited Scotland, and although his audiences were not numerous, and a considerable amount of rude opposition was offered to him, there were nevertheless some who profited by what the lecturer presented to their observation. The phenomena of Mesmerism were then witnessed for the first time by the editor of this little volume, and by Dr. James B. Mitchell, a member of
the medical profession, at that time resident in Glasgow. In order that he might follow up the investigation, Dr. Mitchell procured an introduction to Mr. Dove, as stated in another part of the work in the account of the case of Isabella D . This case was, so far as we are aware, the first of any importance which occurred in Scotland. Some articles regarding it, and other cases which succeeded, were published in the Glasgow Argus in the early part of 1843, and attracted a large share of attention. In this manner the first impetus was given to Mesmerism in Scotland. Lecturers speedily sprung up, and went forth in every direction; and there is now no community of the slightest importance in the north, which does not contain a numerous body of believers in the truths of Mesmerism. Indeed, the members of the medical profession are the only individuals who may still be said to stand aloof as a class; but as the connection between Mesmerism and the healing art is discussed in a separate chapter, we will now bring this brief retrospect to a close.






In 1784, the French Government issued a royal mandate to the medical faculty of Paris, requiring them to investigate the facts and the pretensions of the new doctrine. The hulk of the members of this famous commission had prejudged the question, and like too many of the medical men of our own time, were resolved that they would not be convinced. The name of the celebrated Franklin is attached to the Report that was issued, although it should not have been there, as he is said to have been indisposed at the time, and to have given little attention to what took place. It would serve little purpose at this time of day to expose the inconsistencies of this Report, and those who feel any curiosity on the subject will receive ample satisfaction by referring to the pages of Mr. Colquhoun.



Mesmerism, it was said (and the same objection is frequently raised by the ignorant to-day), is dangerous. If there are dangers, then Mesmer was extraordinarily fortunate in his practice, for there is no evidence that he ever caused injury to a single patient through the use of magnetism. If surgeons and medical practitioners could substantiate a similar claim on behalf of drugs and the knife they used in these days they might consider themselves fortunate indeed.

Hostile critics sneered at Mesmer because he was simple enough to believe in the baquet; because he made use of an iron rod which they wittily referred to as a " wand " ; and because he wore a silk garment when treating his patients. No doubt the baquet was an amazingly simple contrivance, but the phenomena which resulted from its application were simply amazing. People got healed MORE THAN WITH ANY OTHER METHOD The iron rod likewise was amply justified by its use in Mesmer's hands, and, as for the clothes most suitable for him to wear— that, surely, was a problem for himself to decide.

Mesmer was undoubtedly unfortunate in his age. It was a time of tumult and of violent change. The good seed which he sowed was trampled underfoot in the French Revolution. The scientific method of research was very hardly understood, and the prejudices of medievalism were only beginning to melt away in the light of more exact knowledge.

Nobody in any case contested that people got healed. What they didn't accept was the method.

In challenging the Royal Society of Medicine of Paris, the most important scientific corporation of his day, Mesmer may have been over-bold. But it is hard to see how else he could have focussed the attention of Europe, for a brief space, on the strange phenomena of Animal Magnetism.

For the time, medieval orthodoxy, as represented by that Society, triumphed. But the Faculty were utterly unable to get rid of Animal Magnetism. Having explained it away to their own satisfaction, it was distressing to find that, like Frankenstein, it turned up again and yet again, and asked for a further explanation.

In Germany for exemple, may University professors studied it.

Mesmer's own special theory, which had been for the most part disregarded since his death, was lately rehabilitated in France Professor Boirac, late Rector of the Academy of Dijon, in his book, La Psychologie Inconnue* supported the view, after years of research and experiment, that the human body is a storehouse of magnetic energy. The hypothesis is not of recent date. It did not entirely originate with Anton Mesmer. But Mesmer, by fearlessly devoting his life to it, did more than any other man to give it" a local habitation and a name;

In Germany was studied and practised to a considerable extent; that in Prussia many physicians make use of it under the authority of government; and that in Berlin in particular the greatest success has attended its use;—that in Stockholm decrees are granted in the university by an examination on its laws; that in Russia, the Emperor appointed a commission of medical men to inquire into it, and that this commission pronounced it " a very important agent,"—that the first physician of the emperor, and many others at Petersburgh, speak in favour of its utility; and that at Moscow a systematic course of treatment under the highest auspices has been employed for years. In Denmark, physicians practise it under a ' royal ordinance, and by a decree of the College of Health. In Holland, some of the first men take it up. In France, the extent to which it is practised is considerable indeed.f A commission of the Royal Academy of Medicine there recommended that Mesmerism should be allowed a place within the circle of the medical sciences (comme moyen therapeutique devrait trouver sa place dans le cadre des connaissances mddicales). Some of the first physicians in Paris, affixed their signatures to this report. I might mention the cases related by Foissac in his report J: I might give extracts without number on the subject from different French and German works. I might quote from De Leuze, Puysegur, Wienholt, Trcviranus, Brandis of Copenhagen, &c. tuque ad nauseam. The great name of Hufeland, of Berlin, is a host in itself.

In the United States the same mighty progress has been made. Mr. Buckingham, the distinguished traveller, told me, that it is there practised to a very great extent. In his amusing work on that country he mentions several curious Mesmeric cases and phenomena that he witnessed in Philadelphia, at the Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, tried upon children in the presence of several physicians and legal gentlemen, when it appeared proved beyond suspicion, to the satisfaction of all present, that " there was a complete suspension of the susceptibility of pain during the state " of Mesmerism. Dr. Mitchell, an eminent physician of Philadelphia, mentioned an operation performed by him in the extraction of a tooth under most painful circumstances, when no feeling was experienced,— and no recollection of the fact existed afterwards.* And who and what are the men that have thus advocated Mesmerism ? I shall answer in the words of the celebrated French physiologist, Dr. Georget, — who says, — "It is a very astonishing thing that animal magnetism is not even known by name among the ignorant classes : it is among the enlightened ranks that it finds support. It is men who have received some education who have taken its cause in hand: it is partly learned men, naturalists, physicians, philosophers, who have composed the numerous volumes in its favour." And what is the reply of our opponents to this pyramid of facts ? That they are all cases of delusion? Granted, for the sake of argument, that very many might be so, — that in several instances the ablest men might be deceived: what then ? still, even with the largest deduction under this head, what an accumulation of evidence would yet remain! As Mr. Colquhoun observes, " Upon what evidence are we permitted to believe any series of facts? What amount of proof is required ? " The host of competent and highly qualified men who have narrated their experience, forbid the supposition of a universal delusion. Some other theory must be adopted. Mesmerism is a science of facta. To facts we appeal: and we do not believe, aa has