Magnetism work through an unknown principle.
To have it work it is ncessary to have:
- A strong will from the side of the operator
From the side of the subject both a "disposition heureuse" or both blind submission.
If it is necessary to work with a contrary person it is necessary to increase the force.

The second part is to know how to direct the will.
You must know the poles.
There are seven poles.
Navel pole - earth
lombo-sacral pole - venus
Hearth pole
Mouth pole
Head pole
hands pole
eyes pole


The first one is the hearth pole. It goes left and right and down until the navel and the hypocondria.
In this pole there are normally obstructions.
A second pole is the lombo-sacral pole.
A third pole is the breast pole. It is called the white pole. It goes until the bottom lip in the upper side, and until the black pole in the bottom side.
The fourth pole is the mouth pole. It goes from the nose until the black pole in men. From the mouth until the white pole in women.
Working on this pole and at the same time on the black pole is very healthy.
The fifth pole goes from the nose until the top of the head, and from the nose until the upper lip. It includes also the ears.
We work on this pole when we have mental problems or we want to heighten the spirit.
The sith pole is the eye pole. Its action get in touch with the same pole in the magnetisee.
To get results, the right eye must look at the left eye in both the operator as the subject.
Thuis pole is very strong between people of a different sex to enhance energy and to boost the tone.
The seventh pole is the hands pole and can combine with the others in order to create the equators.
It is the easiest one to use. To use it you must put the two index one toward the other and in the middle the part you want to magnetise. You will get there the same warmth that you get on the black pole whe you are well magnetised.

(Mesmer Justifié - Paulet)

Tools of the magnetizer:
sound of the voice
fire of the eyes on the eyes of the patient or on the ill part  

Magnetised water

How we must touch a patient in order that s/he can feel the magnetic effects?
We must put ourselves in face of this patient, with our back toward the Northern side, and put our feet against his feet; after we must put without pressing, the two thumbs on the nerve of the solar plexus, and the fingers on the "hypocondres".
It is good from time to time to move our fingers on the sides, and mostly toward the (rate) and to change place to the thumbs.
After 15 minutes in this way, we work in another way and this on the basis of their health state. 

It is always good to have a hand from one side and the other from the other side.

If we have a general illness we go with our hands from the top of the head and along the shoulders until the feet. 

===

At the begin you must put the hands on tyhe shoulders, and aftrer bring them along the arms until the points of the fingers.
After having done it 2 or three times you can bring energy until the feet.
At this point we look for the seat of the pain and of the cause.
The sick says the seat of the origin, sometimes the cause.
When we discover the cause we touch the point of the cause.

839.50 