HISTORY OF HYPNOTISM, ANIMAL MAGNETISM AND INSTANT HEALINGS



Le fluide n'est point une substance qui puisse être pesée, mesurée, condensée. C'est une force vitale. (Baron Du Potet) 
The vital fluid is not something you can weigh, measure or condense. It is a vital force. (Baron Du Potet)


"Considered...[from] the philosophical point of view, animal magnetism is the most pregnant of all discoveries that have ever been made, although for the time being it propounds rather than solves riddles. It is really practical metaphysics..[A] time will come when philosophy, animal magnetism, and natural science...will shed so bright a light on one another that truths will be discovered at which we could not otherwise hope to arrive" (Schopenauer)


	
Introduction
This book will trace the fortunes and developments of Animal Magnetism and Hypnotism from the time of Mesmer.
It is a practical book based not only on study, but also on our practical experience with the use of ancient techniques guided by people who still practice the original magnetic techniques.

These people we have met live in the western world, and heal in a different way from traditional medicine and psychology.
What is common to all these magnetists is that they can make a strong impression and have a deep and positive physical impact on others, without doing anything specific.
Many believe that this is a gift. In reality it is an inborn capacity of every human being that can be cultivated and perfected.
Stunning Results
In performing the techniques, we came across stunning results. People were healed , pain was removed in a very simple way and we ourselves felt much better and energetic. 
In practicing the exercise, we observed our impact was  stronger in a personal relationship. 
  I was personally very skeptical at the beginning, but the more I studied, the more I had to admit the evidence that magnetism works, and works well. We cannot define it, unless we want to label everything existing on the face of the planet under this name.
Furthermore, I was utterly convinced of the strength and validity of these techniques by recently seeing that they work equally well for healing animals. These are therefore keys that permit us to touch the deepest strata of the human being. 
I was introduced to this world of animal magnetism and hypnotism by a friend who first was exposed to the power of these powerful techniques, which date back to most ancient times.
We therefore tried to go more into depth on both the subject and its forerunners. We were greatly rewarded as we received astonishing results in practicing the techniques of these forerunners.
A history of people
History is always a history of people. This book will speak of these people.
 Each person we will meet along this path and speak about in the following pages has taught us something which has perfected our practice.

My idea has always been to learn from the best and in general from every person I could meet, and I must say that working in this way I have always discovered new horizons.
Healing the human being
Le fluide n'est point une substance qui puisse être pesée, mesurée, condensée. C'est une force vitale. (Baron Du Potet)
The vital fluid is not something you can weigh, measure or condense. It is a vital force. (Baron Du Potet)

Hypnotism and Animal Magnetism can be allied disciplines for healing the human being.
Healing is a process that involves the human being as a whole; starting from his animal part.
We must rediscover it. Our modern culture and society make us live in a world of images and thoughts. But even if we spend most of our time in front of PC screens, our inner and real nature is always the same as the one cavemen had.
Our inner self is always sensible to natural things and has more sensory acuity than we normally use.
Our body is more central in this kind of work than our minds are. To effectively heal and to relate to other human beings we must always start  from something related to the body.
The original discipline
At the origin there was a unique human discipline that involved both energetic elements and psychological elements.
The Goal of this discipline was to help the human being recover the wellbeing, harmony and serenity that are his natural inborn qualities. This discipline was simply called animal magnetism.
In the centuries this discipline split in two parts:
Psychological elements along with a number of physiological elements refer to what is known as ‘hypnosis’.
The so-called ‘Energetic’ elements along with a number of other physiological ones, refer to what continues to be called magnetism, which is the most simple and the most diffused way of healing in the world. It starts from Nature.

“Magnetism is the art of aiding nature in re-establishing equilibrium in the body” Mesmer

Nowadays our modern culture has led us to a very artificial world making it difficult to understand what is written in many ancient books.

“The healing power of Magnetism appears to have been known to the ancients, and to have become lost by the effect of revolutions ; these processes, simple as nature, from which they are derived, constitute Magnetism.” Adolphe Didier

First, we must enter into the frame of mind that what we call magnetism is natural, pleasant and soothing.
It is one of the most beneficial practices we can find.
Using the hands and the gaze for healing is attested in every culture. It is something that pertains not only to the human world, but also to the animal world. By using the very same salutary techniques that we describe here it is also possible to heal animals.
Improving our natural gift
Although it is a very natural gift, it can be improved and learnt if a person wishes to do so. The ancient records of magnetism show us that starting from the first simple cures, it can be developed until we reach very advanced results: the so- called ‘higher magnetic phenomena’. These phenomena launched the beginning of all parapsychological research as well as the advanced system of philosophy such as that of Schopenauer.
This opens the path to the so-called ‘experimental magnetism’, where effects that are difficult to explain can happen.
It is a space where we can develop our intuition and achieve very specific states of consciousness.
Healing
 Healing is the field where results can be achieved from the very first moment. 
Historically, animal Magnetism or Mesmerism evolved and both have become the basis of magnetic healing therapies and of a series of practices which are very diffused throughout Europe. A number of elements of each split, and gave rise to the advent of Modern, or Suggestive healing Hypnotism. 
This latter discipline, Hypnotism, is mostly used for psychological/emotional problems. It could greatly improve when connected again to its source, animal magnetism. By virtue of this re-connection, there is an increase in healing rates  .


The inner force
It is a matter of common observation that some practitioners of the healing art have always been more successful than others, with no apparent advantage however at the outset, in acuteness of intellect, diligence of application to study, efficient culture, or extent of experience. It has generally been attributed to superior judgment, nothing having been credited to intuitional perception: but if we understand the true reason of this difference we can have a method to teach everybody how to reach these higher results.
So connecting the tree of animal magnetism to its branch of  Hypnotism again can be a basis for an even more efficient hypnotherapy in the future.
In our seminars both we, and our students with a hypnotic background, have greatly improved our practices and have become able to conduct sessions that greatly empower their clients.
Magnetism has a consistent Track of therapeutic successes
Animal Magnetism has always had a very consistent track of both successes and investigations.
If we take a look at the ancient records of old French magnetizers we see thousands of successes. These results are present even today. 
We have in fact discovered and analyzed many people who continue these ancient methods.
We will now mention some recent operators who obtained stunning results under modern research conditions.
Andalini, a magnetist who lived in Italy in the 1960s, worked with more than 8000 people. He always performed under medical check and 85 % of his results were positive (improvements or healings).

Giovanni Andalini: healed more than 8000 people
His way of performing was analyzed by many physicians. 
He worked mostly on physical illnesses. Among these we have paralysis, epilepsy, poliomyelitis, and many other cases. 
Vincenzo Campanelli worked on addictions and specifically on quitting smoking with a 90% success rate on thousand of cases.

Vincenzo Campanelli: thousands of people stopped smoking

Most of his clients were high ranking, and he even had a king and a prime minister.
My master Prof. Erminio Di Pisa, healed many pathologies in a few seconds.
He worked and collaborated with many physicians, as well as in  hospitals (San Raffaele di Milano).
  We could cite many others: the French Alalouf, Michel Hermann (Germany) and many, many others throughout all of  history.
  There are many other magnetists who are not known to the general public but did well to thousands of people.
Our goal is to not only help people rediscover this healing methodology, but also to rediscover it at its higher level.
In the course of the centuries it split into many branches, each one developing a specific aspect.
We must again bring together what is dispersed in order to unleash its true power. Our modern world tends to divide. Even if dividing could sometimes be initially good, it risks making us forget that man is one.
The fact is that this is not a discipline as the other ones are, which are based on fixed procedures. It is instead something that has its basis in the operator and his abilities. 
The good thing is that it can be learnt.
The discipline requires as a basis a specific disposition of the operator: his sincere willingness and intent to help the other person.


Science and magnetism
Animal magnetism, even though its results are documented, cannot easily fit into the current reductionist approach of science, which always attempts to remove the influence of the operator from the experiment1. In reality animal magnetism is precisely based on creating this influence and this impact.

“To magnetize is to direct one's thought upon a patient with a persistent will to relieve him; there then results a general movement communicated from the magnetizer to the magnetized, in which the former is principal, and is able to accelerate or to moderate the interior movement of the latter, and consequently to strengthen the conservative principle.”  A. Didier

An interesting fact is that part of the popularity of   magnetism is that it is able to cure some illnesses that cannot be cured easily with classical treatments.
Another fact behind its popularity is that it cannot be but salutary, it has no counter indication.
 But strangely, despite an accumulated track of 300 years of records of successes beyond every possible doubt, this discipline has always tended to provoke strong reactions. There are people who are spontaneously enthusiastic and others who are spontaneously skeptical and want to explain it with other systems such as imagination or suggestion.
Even if this were the case, it would still be very useful to   learn, as it works on animals as well, and no modern psychological conception of the mind can give it an explanation.
Magnetizers most of the time, have only one goal: to help other people feel better.
All the people we will mention in this book have huge merits. Maybe these merits are not toward our modern reductionist Newtonian science, but they are towards humanity.
They have helped other people to feel better, to live longer  and better lives, and they have looked toward an upper dimension which modern man has a need to retrieve.  
It is important to give justice to them and to the wellbeing they brought about. 

Quantum entanglement
Animal Magnetism is based on a positive intent toward another person.
Magnetism is a participatory discipline, that could be explained by using the current quantistic paradigm of a quantistic  ‘entanglement’ between operator and subject.


At this point it is a fact that not only human beings, but even animals can be healed in a simple way. 
For example, a friend of ours, Elizabeth2, uses this technique for healing horses with astonishing results.
Animals will feel better and recover from their illnesses.


“To magnetize, that is to say, to open one's heart to the sweet impulse of benevolence, requires the same sentiment in return from the person who is magnetized, i.e., gratitude.”  Alphonse Didier
Some interesting researches
Personally we think it is uninteresting to find a physical correlate of the ‘fluid’ as it changes the focus from the results to the method.
If something can be measured but doesn’t heal, it is not this force.
In any case, for the more skeptical readers, we will state the results of some researches.
From a scientific point of view it is for example interesting to note the studies of Bernard Grad, a biological researcher and geriatrician at McGill University's Allen Memorial Institute (Montreal, Canada), has researched healing attributed to laying on of hands. His experiments in the mid-1970s showed that Oskar Estebany, a recognized hands-on healer, could influence the healing of wounded mice and the growth of barley seeds. Grad wondered if psychological factors, in particular a person's mood, could affect another organism. He had a psychiatrically normal man, a neurotically depressed woman, and a psychotically depressed man hold bottles of water. The water from each person was used to water a group of seeds. A control group of seeds received water that had not been held by anyone. "...the seeds treated by the psychiatrically normal man grew better than did all the other groups of seeds....When the mood of the neurotically depressed woman improved she, too, showed an ability to influence the seeds." None of these people were known to have healing abilities. 
In any case, other studies indicate that a healer's positive or negative mood can affect the results of his/her work. During the relaxed summer pace of Rosary Hill College (Buffalo, New York), M. Justa Smith, PhD, a biochemist, was amazed to find that healer Oskar Estebany increased the activity of enzymes in a solution simply by holding its container. The enzymes had been purposely damaged by ultrasound irradiation. Months later when Estebany was dealing with stressful circumstances, he was unable to affect enzyme activity. Appelbaum says that other studies have shown that patients whose psychotherapists are "empathetic, therapeutically genuine, and...view patients positively," do better than patients whose therapists do not have these qualities.3
In Italy there have been researches in many hospitals showing   positive results.4 These results were published on medical reviews.
Finally, even if a part of animal magnetism, such as the power of passes or the power of finding healing remedies could also receive current physiological explanations, these nevertheless do not reduce their efficacy and the need to learn these techniques.

Why the name Animal Magnetism?
The name ‘animal magnetism’ appears therefore most appropriate as we are touching something pertaining not just to the human being , but  to every living being.
It is a very simple and at the same time very powerful and mysterious technique. But science even today is not able to fully explain many elements of the animal world.
Animals perceive energy immediately, and they have more sensorial acuity than human beings.
We have found that we can successfully train people to recover these abilities.
  Animal magnetism always proceeds  from a natural aptitude of being very open to:
Sensory perceptions
Inner intuitions
  

As the human being is part of the animal world he naturally already possesses these perceptive gifts. Humans must only reawaken their attention to them and further sense his being part of Nature.
Magnetism and Energy in the world
In every country of the world and in every culture there have always been healers operating cures that simply cannot be explained in a rationalistic way. 
Paralysis that gets solved in a few seconds, severe problems that fade away with ease, addictions which vanish in 45 seconds, all of these are results that can be attributed to this power that has not yet been completely uncovered for all its uses and functions on Humans , and animals.
Actually there are some countries in the world, which accept or adopt energetic and magnetic paradigms. In China for example acupuncture is accepted, and in Germany there is an acceptance of the existence of a class of healers (heilpraktiker) which are not physicians and operate with different methodologies.

But the same concepts struggle in the academies.
As Prof. Meheust wrote, “we think that there is an academic blindness about these techniques that hinder a complete acceptance of the paradigm”.
Scientific blindness is not a strange fact. In the past centuries there has been a social and even scientific blindness in recognizing the value of women or other populations.
Help us spread knowledge about Animal Magnetism
The more animal magnetism becomes known to all, the better it will be for all of humanity, as in itself it encompasses a philosophy where the human being is seen as a whole.
Is it better to be healed without knowing why, or to be sick and knowing why?
Why animal magnetism works is in part a mystery. Scientific studies have shown effects on hemoglobin values5, on EEG6 and on many other variables.
But the most important proofs are the results.
These are so numerous throughout all of history. They cannot be easily referred to suggestion or specific physiological causes.
New practitioners can begin to get results on themselves already within a month or less of practice. These results are not obtainable with other methods.   
Science has been debating on this for around 300 years, without arriving at a definite answer (Mehehust 2004 7).
My idea is that there is probably not just one, but rather many principles that still need to be discovered and more diffused in order to arrive at an integration of different disciplines.
A primary aspect for example is that as we perform magnetism we enhance body awareness. Many problems have their roots in dissociation from the body. As a person dissociates from the body, s/he enters into the world of thinking (s/he goes meta) and often substitutes thinking to real sensations of parts of the body.
At this point we observe in these areas of the body specific symptoms that have even been systemized and categorized by various authors (tell me where you feel pain and I will tell you why)8.
The more one is in touch with his own self, the greater is the ensuing state of balance going to be. Taking back possession of our body will lead us back to our own selves  

But even the fact that we enhance body awareness does not account for all the healings. In particular it doesn’t account for the healings we can get on animals.
In these cases we see that the main factors for the healing are the love and energy that the operator expresses.
This other explanation can be expressed by using the terminology of quantum physics.
In quantistic terms, we can see that between operator and subject there is some sort of ‘entanglement’ which is very similar to what is described in quantum physics. The creation in the operator’s brain of ‘coherent states’ might be a fundamental element.
In any case, theories and scientific proofs, though interesting, must always give place to the facts. 
Modern researchers (Meheust 2005) have asked: is it better to know the reason why, and not be healed, or not to know the reason why, and be healed?
Science has often crossed the path of such healings. Physicians have often worked together with healers who worked with the main tenets of Animal Magnetism, but nevertheless the reason why is still now an open territory. An important scientist named Prof. Malizia in stated in 1990: it is unexplainable in normal terms through the use of standard medical frameworks. 
It is the same as saying that even if we don’t know completely what electricity is, we can still make it work. Actually in our modern world there is a vast series of healers who continue using the techniques with success under different names (Magnetism, pranotherapy or even just as ‘healers’) and   continue their traditions by forming new practitioners.
The author
I myself am representative of a union that works to defend the rights of people practicing alternative medicines.
 I am also a Hypnotherapist, and have a recognized school for forming both hypnotherapists and psychotherapists. I also have a vast background in what are called ‘modern therapies’ such as NLP, EFT, EMDR and many others.
In our institute I have also assembled a library of many thousands of books, both modern and ancient, that I believe are rarely found elsewhere.
Therefore, after having myself practiced as well as having trained many people, I obviously continue practicing each year and so I believe I have all the authority needed for writing such a book.
I think there is a need for this, as most of the historic books speak only of a part of the whole and try to see the past through the lenses of the present.
As I am aware that being too academic could be an obstacle to the diffusion of these wonderful disciplines, I have tried to keep the language very simple, and have inserted graphs and anything else which could be useful to the understanding of these techniques. 
Hypnotism and magnetism
It is curious how both the practitioners of hypnosis and the practitioners of magnetic techniques derived from animal magnetism, seem most of the time to be unfamiliar with the each other’s work. 
Today’s Hypnotism is for example in most cases of actual practice, only a shade of the complete rainbow. As I am also a hypnotherapist, I know for sure that hypnotists can profit from the hidden treasures of Magnetism; and actual practitioners of Magnetism and hypno-magnetism could profit in knowing more about hypnosis.
Until the 1930s the two disciplines were still very connected, but later they split apart.
My aim is also to help reconnect two branches which together can offer a lot to humanity.

“there is in Mesmerism the existence of a power which, if properly directed and controlled, it may be found eminently serviceable in increasing the happiness of human kind.”  F.A. Mesmer

Hypnosis is a form derived from a branch of animal magnetism, which has received more academic historical attention than its original source.  It is now time to put attention on this latter form, which in fact counts probably more practitioners than the former in its derivations in Europe.
Too often, only some academic works are taken into account when writing the history of hypnotism, and most of the time these are writings by people who don’t even practice hypnotism but who instead only had a good place in the academy9.
This line of conduct creates many problems10.

What to read?
If you are, or want to be an hypnotherapist and want to really learn hypnotism and magnetism, it is good for you to read not only about hypnosis and the systems of Dave Elman and Milton Erickson, but also that you take a look at the past, and learn that there are many different paths, such as those outlined by Braid, Fahnstock, Sunderland, and Bods, and the many writings and revues of the Mesmerists.
 
Many of them you will find for free on Gallica.fr and Google Books. Here are the names of some authors:

William Gregory, with: Letters to a Candid Inquirer, on Animal Magnetism. 

Gregory, a Professor of Chemistry at the University of Edinburgh and a well-respected scientist, was an enthusiastic supporter of animal magnetism. In this book he gives a clear description of the mesmeric state and the relationship between the magnetizer and magnetized. He discusses both the ‘lower’ and ‘higher’ phenomena of mesmerism and describes many cases illustrating both.

Townshend, Chauncy Hare, with: Facts in Mesmerism with Reasons for a Dispassionate Inquiry into It.

Townshend, a clergyman of the Church of England, was one of the most articulate British writers on animal magnetism. This book went through many editions in Britain and the United States, and it proved to be very influential in making animal magnetism a legitimate subject of interest.

Deleuze with “Practical Instructions for the study of Animal Magnetism.

Du Potet with: Introduction to the study of Animal magnetism 
Du Potet was a powerful magnetizer, and travelled to many cities giving lectures on Mesmerism. 

Georges Sandby,
In “Mesmerism and its Opponents” Georges Sandby describes his own personal experiences with animal magnetism and their influence on his opinion of the genuineness of the phenomena. Using cases from the mesmeric literature, he emphasizes both the benefits of and potential dangers of animal magnetic practice, emphasizing the need to counter superstitious attitudes in those who participate. Sandby also suggests techniques for the use of magnetizers
 
Colquhoun, with Isis Revelata
Colquhoun was an ardent partisan of animal magnetism. He attempted to show that just as with many great scientific discoveries (Galileo, Harvey, etc.) in its early stages animal magnetism had been linked in the minds of its critics with magic and superstition and rejected by the scientific establishment. As these discoveries proved to be of great benefit to mankind, so will it be with animal magnetism. To substantiate this view, Colquhoun ranges through the history of the rise and development of animal-magnetic practices, harking back now and again to analogous phenomena in previous eras of history. 
 
Ashburner, 
A London physician, and a friend of John Elliotson who wrote articles for Elliotson’s mesmeric journal, the Zoist. Ashburner had become convinced of the reality of animal magnetism in the 1840s.

Adolphe Didier

Lee, 
Wilson,
Middleton, 
Leger, 
Lafontaine, 
Gauthier, 
Teste
Barety
Ochorowicz
Boirac

and many other well known writers, each of whom presents his own particular views, and details his own particular experiences, and all of whom are well worthy of study.

Read also :
all the modern writers about quantistic thinking and body-mind relationship (Fritjoff Capra, Deepak Chopra etc…)

It is also of interest reading biographies of healers, as there is a common element between them all:
Many of them healed thousands of people with an impressive rate of success.

Without a certain knowledge of these authors; the modern student of Animal Magnetism and Modern Hypnotism, will find himself as much at sea when he reads current treatises on Hypnotism as the writers of those treatises appear themselves to be, with regard to the rationale of the processes they describe.


    
King Hussein of Jordan and Shimon Peres. Both stopped smoking through the help of a modern magnetic healer: Vincenzo Campanelli of Rome. This shows how magnetism can even today be a strong help for wellbeing.

Animal Magnetism in relationship with the history of hypnotic science
I have perfected the practice of Magnetism and Fascination in parallel with studies on the most modern techniques such as NLP and Ericksonian Hypnosis.
I have participated in many NLP, Hypnosis and other conventions, the last one in Montecarlo where  Zig Ziglar’s son was also among the speakers.
I personally knew Gil Boyne, Ormond Mc Gill and many others.
Having knowledge of so many kinds of techniques, I can assure you that Magnetism is a plus. 

You will find that the techniques and approaches in magnetism  touch deeper strata of the human being.
Practicing Animal Magnetism opens the path to a series of inexplicable healings that most of the time tend to suggest that we should open our logical mind more to what we don’t know.
Non verbal communication
The non-verbal is inborn and simple, while the verbal needs to be learnt and is complex 

Magnetism opens the path to a kind of communication that goes on without words, and that most of the time cannot be explained fully even by trying all rationalistic hypotheses.
This communication demands sensitivity.
As this kind of communication is even present in similar work performed with animals, we understand that it is not a matter of suggestion, even if psychological elements could enhance the communication.
The non-verbal is denser than the verbal

Ancient hypnotists hypnotized non-verbally, and many times got stronger results than those obtained by hypnotists today.
Other curious effects are that in many instances we see distant effects11, similar to what happens between twins and between people who know each other very well.
The necessary state of “open mind”
Magnetism is natural. All it needs is to be learnt afresh

At the beginning, when I started studying magnetism, I got some results, but I had difficulties in reaching certain others.   I later got them easily and with very little effort.
The key is in the state of mind.
If we start to practice it to verify our own “rational” theories we are on a false track.
If we start practicing with the aim of discovering what will happen, giving credit to the fact that reality is wider than what we think, we can discover many things that will truly stupefy us. 
Everything is naturally connected to the state of mind of the operator: an openness and curiosity of the mind is a must have.
The practice of magnetism, to be effective, could be instead based on the perception of reality as a wave of probability, as something in which the human presence and consciousness can make the difference.
Many times, with this frame of mind, apparent impossible results can become reality if we would just allow it.
A good attitude is thinking that there is more to know than science actually knows.
In everybody’s life there are coincidences, synchronicities that many times cannot be fully rationalized.
This is natural, as rationality is only a human veil that we try to put on a reality that is wider.
Quantum physics easily shows some of the paradoxes of the linear thinking.
And probably in the future mankind will make other discoveries.
Therefore it is useful to have both a lucid mind as well as an open mind in accepting that we know only the surface layer of things.
Most of the people tend to reject what they don’t know, even in the academic field.
But, as Eraclitus (the Greek philosopher) said: “if you don’t expect the unexpected you cannot find the truth”.  

When we operate magnetically, we should grant ourselves the chance “not to know”. As Lao- Tse says: “Knowing that you do not know is a great thing, while thinking that you know is a disease”.

In Magnetism we must also open our minds to psychic research.
Prof. Meheust, a French university professor who recently received a prize from the University of Sorbonne for his studies on history of Animal Magnetism wrote12:
“Psychical researchers have sustained more criticism than researchers in any other field. This is probably why they tend to increasingly reject qualitative studies, and underestimate the early history of their field. For instance, for them, the data gathered in the middle of the 19th century, in France and in England, are difficult to interpret, insofar as the requirements of modern laboratory were little understood and controls were inadequate. For the most part, conjurors were not systematically invited to control the somnambulists, descriptions of the sittings were not taken verbatim, and of course, investigators didn't have the luxury of tape recorders or cameras.
Nevertheless, I think that it is a mistake to underestimate the prehistory of psychical research.
Many of our precursors were far more competent than we typically give them credit. The real difference between early researchers and a modern laboratory worker is that the latter adheres to standardized procedures, whereas the quality of the 19th century experiments essentially depended on the quality of the people who conducted them. Thus, in some cases, researchers clearly intuited the standards of modern laboratories: conditions were varied to note their effect on the phenomena, conjurers were invited to assist the demonstrations, real-time notes were taken, with descriptions covering the sessions in considerable detail. I could readily cite comments and observations written around 1840, which could have been written today.
In any case, even if they did not yet know how to conduct impeccable experiments –
Impeccable according to our standards – in the 19th century, investigators had a very rich base of phenomena at their disposal, and have left us an incredible amount of data to question and analyse, to sift and sort through. These old cases could reveal much more if we knew how to ask the right questions. We are still very far from having extracted and interpreted all the material left behind. Indeed, I think we have hardly begun to explore the richness of these materials.”

Hypnosis and Animal Magnetism
Hypnosis and animal magnetism, though often confounded, are two distinct disciplines.
They merge in some points and differ in others.
Animal magnetism relies on the principles of vitalism, while hypnosis on the idea of vitality.
Thus animal magnetism touches deeper strata and works even on animals.
Two branches
There are two branches of the same reality with a common goal of healing people.

We highly recommend reading the books listed in the bibliography. Many professions can gain more in learning these techniques, and from my experience I know that hypnotherapists can learn a lot from these pages.
As Dr. Richard Harte said: “Modern Hypnotists are many times like people who have landed upon an unknown shore without a map or compass. 

They have, as it were, met with great rivers, and they think that they can learn about their rise and outflow by analysing their waters, and cataloguing the fish they find in them. They find themselves hemmed in by mountains, and they regard those mountains as natural barriers, beyond which lays the empire of fraud and delusion, peopled by dreadful monsters of the imagination. I want to help them to take a bird's eye view, if not of the whole great continent on which they have landed, at least of the part of it into, which the explorer is likely to venture, so that they may learn where their rivers rise and end, and know what lies beyond the mountains that now form their horizon. 
There are many clever men at present engaged in the exploration of Hypnotism, who have already extracted from their limited ground much that is of practical utility, but I am convinced that until they know what lies beyond the limits within which they now confine their investigations, they will be empiricists, whose theories only serve to blindfold them, and who wander round in a circle, mistaking each other for enemies when they meet.
I need hardly say that I fully recognise the practical value of much of the work which our Hypnotists have done in some special directions, but I think that their labours would bear more and better fruit were they to lay aside their prejudices, and make themselves acquainted with what others have done in much the same field before Modern Hypnotism was born.”13
The first step is beginning to accept the reality of the necessity of a more open mind toward new possibilities.
If you are a practicing hypnotherapist you need to know about psychological hypnotism, but if you want to be excellent it is good to free yourself from any preconceived belief. You will hence discover beautiful valleys and spaces, and you will be most useful to your client.

Summary of some differences between Hypnotism and Animal magnetism
As we have mentioned, there are currently bodies of national legislation, such as the one in Germany, which grant explicit and official recognition to the existence of alternative therapeutic methods, including those associated with naturopathy or based on magnetism, along with other varieties, which we do not intend to tackle in this context.
The fact that something simple, endowed with immediate validity and capable of restoring well-being, might give birth to conflicting opinions which, while taking care never to question the instances of healing, nevertheless tend to construct different explanations in spite of the fact that the simplest explanation of such phenomena constantly comes back to the fore and yet finds it hard to earn acceptance by the mind.
Animal magnetism is different from hypnosis in its mainstream academic experimental practice. 
It is also a method, which also opens up to higher, and more spiritual dimensions.
Magnetists have used it to induce higher phenomena of trance and healing, clairvoyance, and the transference of thoughts and sensations from one person to another (for overviews see Barrucand, 1967; Crabtree, 1993; Gauld, 1992; Méheust, 1999). 
As William Gregory writes in “letter to a candid enquirer”
“Some of the higher phenomena, namely, are Sympathy and Clairvoyance. It has been shown that these are connected, by insensible gradations, with the lower or more usual phenomena, and that, as both classes of facts depend, so far as we know, on the same cause, and both are equally inexplicable on ordinary principles, or rather equally explicable, the one class cannot, with strict propriety, be called higher or lower" than the other.  “Nevertheless, as the effects of Sympathy and Clairvoyance have a peculiar character, which would partake of the supernatural, were we not convinced that they depend on natural causes, and have nothing miraculous about them, it may be convenient to use the term Higher Phenomena, on the understanding that this does not imply a difference in nature, but only in degree, for those to which we now proceed, in contradistinction to those already treated of, and first, of Sympathy. This power, as we have seen, begins to appear in the earlier stages, and is shown in the form of an attraction towards the magnetizer, or in that of obedience to his silent will. But as we advance, it is further developed, so as to become the chief characteristic of a certain stage of the magnetic sleep. The sleeper acquires the power of perceiving every sensation, bodily and mental, of his magnetizer. Nay, he often exhibits a like power in reference to all with whom he is placed en rapport, especially when this is done by contact. These sensations are so vividly felt by the sleeper, that he cannot distinguish them from the same sensations produced by direct external impressions on his own frame. Indeed, there appears to be no difference whatever between the two. He feels what is felt by the person en rapport with him, as truly as if the original impressions were made upon himself. He forms, for the time, a part of the person on whom the direct impressions are made, and all sensations, or many sensations, are common to both parties.”


In the higher phenomena, we would even include healings that many times come about in a very unexpected way.  
Mesmer was the first in dilvulging a method for obtaining these healings.
Writing in 1779, Franz Anton Mesmer (1734–1815) listed 27 propositions concerning this force, which he defined as a universal fluid that emanated from the heavenly bodies and that was present in nature (Mesmer, 1779/19801). 
To be more precise Mesmer pointed out that this is a technique which requires sensitivity.
He said:

“Magnetism can be compared to a sixth sense. The senses are neither defined nor described. They are rather felt. One cannot explain to a blind man what colours are. One would necessitate him to be able to “feel”, them, that is, to see them. The same holds true for magnetism. It must be mainly transmitted through inward feeling. It is only feeling that can make the theory of it understandable”
 


Practical hint: 
try to develop your sensitivity. Open yourself up to this part of you. It is like another sense you must discover	 
	Why use the word “fluid”?


With regards to the word “fluid” there are many misconceptions in both popular and even scientific books.
The simpler way to think about it is vital energy.
Science’s acceptance of the concept of “vital force” has first occurred at the hands of ethnologists (R.H. Codrington - 1891) who were busy studying the Indonesian and Polynesian regions. Thereafter, it was taken up by the founders of religious ethnology
(R.Marett, M.Mauss and E. Durkheim). It was in fact discovered that this force was present as an essential principle in most diverse cultures ranging from Asia and Africa to the American Indies. As stated by Mauss in this connection, “this composite idea of force
and environment eschews classification in terms of the rigid and abstract categories of our language and reason. From the viewpoint of an intellectual psychology of the individual, such composite idea eludes explanation. Let us however investigate whether a psychology of the individual within a collective unit, which is not steeped in intellectualism, might concede and explain its existence”
What is garnered from reading Mauss’ words is that it is important to understand that these studies might be carried out without the need to pose the question as to whether or not such ‘vital energy’ can be proved at a physical level. It suffices, indeed, if it is perceived in the immediate directness of its effects and within the human being.

In Eastern disciplines, vital energy is called either prana or chi. The fluid is linked to the relevant person's vitality. Whoever recognizes it will be able to recognize life. It serves no benefit to discuss what it actually is. What matters is that one should recognize it. When it comes to knowing what it actually is, we are legitimately entitled to follow what Lao-Tse has to say: “Knowing not to know is the quality of the sage. Thinking that we know is a disease”. We do not actually know what this reality we call fluid, which is moreover augmented by developing one’s consciousness, precisely amounts to.


Energy is natural. What is unnatural is not to feel it, but the truth is that modern man lives an unnatural life and must therefore learn how to feel it all over again 

From a modern point of view, it could also be possible to substitute or accompany the word ‘fluid’ with terminology more  accepted by modern science or culture, such as the words ‘energy’, or, to describe its magnetic effects,  ‘morphic fields’ chosen by dr. Sheldrake, or ‘entanglement’ used by modern quantum science. These words basically describe the same effects.
The world ‘fluid’ though, has a psychological effect and breaks away some barriers.
Why the word magnetism?
Magnetism is connected to the word ‘attraction’.
This word recently came back in vogue with books such as “The secret” which speaks of ‘the law of attraction’ which encompasses many concepts of the philosophy of magnetism. 
Mesmer related animal magnetism to physical and organic matter, the human body being affected by it through the nerves. In an attempt to relate this force to other principles, Mesmer compared it to magnetism, arguing that it was polarized. 
He clearly stated that the idea of magnetism was only used by similitude, but that another force was at work.
He not only believed that this force could heal, but was convinced that it could be reflected and intensified by mirrors, propagated by sound, and stored in matter (Mesmer’s system is discussed by Pattie, 1994 and Amadou).
Evolution of Mesmeric ideas
After Mesmer, the concept of mesmerism was elaborated by later mesmerists, who published their ideas and observations during the eighteenth (Tardy de Montravel, 1785), nineteenth (Du Potet, 1868), and twentieth (Durville, 1920 - 1940) centuries.
After the second world war, several other theories about   magnetic facts were also suggested, but most of the time they can be reconnected to preceding theories with the exception of the quantum approach which began to be divulged in the years 1970. 
In the opinion of Baron Jean du Potet de Sennevoy (1796–1881), the phenomena of magnetism could be explained as follows: “The nervous, active atmosphere of the magnetizer, no doubt augmented by the impulse of his will … enters in rapport with the passive nervous atmosphere of the magnetized person, and augments the latter to the point that, in some cases, it seems that there is a real saturation of the nervous system” (Du Potet, 1868, p. 316).
Mesmeric literature


The mesmeric literature is vast and varied (Alvarado, 2008; Gauld, 1992, pp. 631–668).”
We can count at least 1800 reference books on magnetism and magnetic ideas and other thousands of popular books, as well as 
many magazines  such as “The Zoist” that clearly outline applications of Animal Magnetism.
We have read most of these books for the purpose of writing  this history of animal magnetism and hypnotism.
 
Two theoretical developments 
Hypnotism relates to animal magnetism because it normally concentrates  more in trying to assume scientific aspects, but even today there are divisions with regards to what it really is (see for example the different opinions of Hilgard, Wagstaff and others).
What happened in the history was that the development of a variety of ‘theoretical views’ (e.g., Braid, 1843; Charcot, 1882) contributed to create of these two distinct branches: the hypnotic one and the magnetic one. 
Both branches interpreted the other in their own terms.  
As stated by a writer in the Revue Scientifique de la France et de la Étranger, hypnosis was seen either as a “particular case of induced hysteria,” or as the absorption of “animal magnetism into hypnotism according to Braid’s formula” (Héricourt, 1884, p. 813).
On the other side, in the hypnotic field, skepticism about this hypothetical force was rampant. One author saw the “hypothesis of magnetic fluid” as one unsupported by “any good experimental demonstrations” - Richet, 1884, p. 221 – ( we should note that Richet was instead oriented toward a telepathic hypothesis).
Hippolyte Bernheim (1840/1919), the leader of the Nancy school of hypnosis, affirmed that the phenomena of hypnosis “are not due to a magnetic fluid”; instead, he wrote “everything is due to suggestion” (Bernheim, 1884, p. 73).
“In 1900 Hypnosis had not replaced mesmerism at the end of the nineteenth century, but still existed alongside it” (Pintar & Lynn, 2008, p. 9114).
And in fact, magnetism, and its variants, continues to be defended (mostly in Europe) by serious students during the late nineteenth and into the twentieth centuries and obviously by thousands of practitioners. Even today the ideas born out of the school of animal magnetism, are with us in many guises (e.g., Movaffaghi & Farsi, 2009; Nelson & Schwartz, 2005).”15
As pointed out by Meheust (1999), two distinct approaches were at work, the reductionist one and the not reductionist. 
Many scientists, even in this century, continue looking upon the mysteries of the healing obtained by the magnetic method. As we will see at the end of this book, there is a ‘something’, or even more “something’s” that need to be uncovered and that rely on the human being. 

Learning from everybody.

In this book we try to learn something from all ancient magnetists. 
It will help you in doing a better therapy and better understanding this wonderful discipline.
For example:
From the ancient hermetists and alchemists we can learn the wholistic relationship with Nature.
From Mesmer’s teaching we can learn the importance of the body and the theory of illness, as well as the interconnectedness of man with everything. 
From de Lausanne we can learn the importance of sensitivity
From de Puysegur the power touch charged with will
From du Potet the higher types of magnetism
From Lafontaine the importance of Concentration
Etc…


History of Animal magnetism
The more attention we pay to modem writers on hypnotism, the more those of us who are also familiar with the earlier writers will be struck by the fact that above all their other characteristics the modem hypnotists from Braid downwards are not those who have put the investigation of mesmeric phenomena on a scientific basis. (Sinnet – The rationale of mesmerism)
The practice of animal magnetism dates from a very early period, not only with regard to the cure of diseases, but also in order to serve other important purposes; and the more general diffusion of a knowledge of the higher order of phenomena connected with it will doubtless go far to elucidate several occurrences handed down to us by tradition that have been heretofore enveloped in mystery. 
The phenomena obtainable by Animal Magnetism, have been observed from the earliest ages. It is probable that the ancients were well acquainted with them, that this knowledge, being kept secret, and perhaps used for bad, certainly for self interested purposes, by those who had the exclusive possession of it, had been lost, and that it was necessary to recover it, which was first effectually done, in great part at least, by Mesmer, although Van Helmont, and many others before Mesmer, had obtained glimpses of the truth.
On the wall of a chamber, discovered among the antiquities of Egypt, where are hieroglyphics referring exclusively to medicine, a priest is represented in the act of magnetizing an individual. 
The ancients were well acquainted also with the phenomena of somnambulism; they discovered that it could be induced by certain mystic rites, during which, as will hereafter appear manifest, a principle unknown to them was evolved; and they placed implicit reliance on the lucidity which occurs in this state, and which they naturally enough ascribed to the direct interposition of some of their heathen divinities. 

We shall find, too, that they had recourse during these religious ceremonies to direct manipulations; hence Prosper Alpinus distinctly states, that frictions during ablution was one of the secret remedies of the Egyptian priests, after which the patients lay down on the skins of the animals they had sacrificed, and, having prepared themselves for sleep by fervent prayer, awaited the visions which Isis was supposed to reveal to them16.

Dr. Ennemoser observes, in his " History of Magic " (Bonn's edition): " Magnetism was daily practised in the temples of Isis, of Osiris, and of Serapis” Several of the Egyptian monuments present scenes of magnetic treatment. On a mummy case, of which a representation is given by Montfaucon, an individual is shown in the act of magnetising a sick person by ‘passes.’ Denon, in his "Voyage en Egypte," likewise refers to the same circumstance. 
It is from Egypt that a very ancient hermetic tradition, the ‘Egyptian Rite’ is said to be derived.
It is equally in Egypt, in the evolutions after the form of “alexandrine gnosis”,   that the hermetic tradition has it source.  
We find forms similar to magnetism even in Asia.
The healing work with the Chi has many points in common with the magnetic practice.
Also the Chinese Taoist alchemy is derived, and in turn has influenced the Indian alchemy, where alchemy is to be intended not only as a science for working with  metals (and in the spagyric form to find healing remedies), but also as a wholistic science to work on the human being, symbolized by a stone to be purified.
And to do it, energy, in the form, of consciousness, is necessary.   
The writer of the article, "Mesmerism," in the work, " The Occult Sciences " —extracted from the "Encyclopedia Metropolitana " —after reverting to these and other writers on the subject, observes: " The power of magnetism, either theoretically or practically, was never wholly unknown. In Asia and China it. has probably never ceased to be practiced from the earliest antiquity down to the present hour, and in the former vast region of population its use has been varied by that of drugs and narcotics. "
It is, then, an actual power that we ascribe to the hand, without which it could never have become the symbol of power among the ancients. The power of the eye is equally remarkable, and even savage animals turn away from its fixed, dauntless expression. 

The fascination of the eye has been an article of the popular creed of all ages. Magnetism by the eye is, indeed, often more powerful than that of the hand, but there is probably a specific difference. 
Will is, after all, the real power exercised by the magnetist. The hand, the eye, the expression may give direction to the power variously, which may also be determined by words, numbers, and signs, or even by the silent will of the operator; all of which have a subtle and magical influence over the patient. "It is now proved, also, that magnetic healing was in vogue among all the nations of antiquity, as the Hindoos, Persians, Chaldeans, Babylonians, Egyptians, and even the Chinese” "Encyclopedia Metropolitana “
 
Athanasius Kircher has shown that the Emperors Constantine, Hadrian, and Vespasian cured by the hand, and the "Edda" shows us King Olaf performing a similar ceremony. 
The Venerable Bede, in his " Ecclesiastical History," mentions frequent cures by the Christian bishops as early as the seventh century17. 

Hermetism, Alchemy and Animal Magnetism


Hermetic Alchemy is an influential philosophical tradition. It is also diffused in India and China with similar forms.
Even there, it has always been very secretive and it is only recently that some more clear works have been published.
We recommend the works of Mantak Chia for understanding the form this discipline took in Orient.

Some authors believe that all these alchemies (Taoist, Indian and western) have a common origin18. In any case, the concepts are the same.
In general, alchemists believe in a natural and symbolic unity of humanity with the cosmos.
The defining objectives, include not only the creation of the fabled philosopher's stone, possessing powers including the capability of turning base metals into the noble metals gold or silver- as well as an elixir of life conferring youth and immortality. 
The alchemists were wont to view their discipline as consisting in an inward development. They used to say that the totality of Nature was interrelated and that man was not separated from it but was rather a part thereof. 
One of the sayings among them was the following: “You will never make the one until you have first become one with yourself”19.
The alchemists thus focused a great deal of attention on a path of inward evolution aimed at re-establishing integration with oneself, and they accordingly saw the material world as being linked to the spiritual one20. 

We can easily see how this point of view is the same as the point of view adopted by Taoism and mainstream Indian philosophies21.

Already Paracelsus spoke of magnetism. According to Paracelsus, there was a vital energy, an “arcanum” in the universe.
.‘as a man imagines himself to be so he is’( Paracelsus)

Paracelsus – Physician, Alchemist and Healer

In coagulating itself, this universal energy creates the world and everything contained in it.
The world is in some way a living one.
Even if this point of view may seem strange to modern man, it is this way by many people who live in contact with the Nature.
Modern science can give a sense to these concepts through the idea of consciousness.
In quantistic science, the observer in some way creates his own reality.
Even in plain psychology, we do not perceive the world directly, but we see only the image we create in our brain of it, interpreting, as Jung said, a world of vibrations.
It is only because we are conscious, that we can perceive the world.
According to another alchemist, Van Helmont, the soul is endowed with a modelling power, which, after having produced an idea, can mould it into substance and shape, and send it far off, propelled and guided by the will. This power, infinite in the Creator, is, of course, limited in his creatures, and may consequently be more or less obstructed by obstacles. 
Ideas thus clothed in substance, have a physical influence on living beings through the medium of the vital principle; they act with more or less power, in proportion to the energy of the will that sends them forth; and their action may be checked by the resistance of the receiving patient. Some learned men, in Van Helmont's time, thought that the sympathetic power emanated from the stars, but Vanhelmont maintained the contrary. "I see," said he, " the source of this power in an agent much nearer to ourselves. Ideas are the directing power, and these ideas are produced by charity or good-will. Thus, respecting the sympathetic influence, I consider these stars of our intelligence (attention and charity) far above the stars of the heavens. Such ideas arising through a desire of doing good are heard afar off, and reach the object pointed out by the will, whatever may be the intervening distance."

 Alchemical symbolisms

Alchemists used a complex set of symbols in order to transmit their ideas. Symbols were also a system to speak to the non- rational mind and unconscious part of the mind. Words are not the best tools to get in contact with the deeper strata of the human being. This use of symbols can be accepted even in a modern quantistic interpretation.  Late modern (Einsteinian) physics insists that what we call “matter” is inseparable from the energetic flux of space-time (E = mc2). In an analogous way the sphere of human “spirituality” is not quarantined from the material sphere – as though we were dealing with two types of substance (material and immaterial) – but wholly entangled within (albeit emergent from) the sphere of materiality.22 Symbols become therefore tools of transformation.

Small course in some basic hermetic aspects.
Achieving the right Mindset
The ego or ‘self’ is our outer mask. Beyond the self, one's inward being is to be found. All the work consists in accessing the essential inward being, which should have mastery over the self  

Hermetic philosophy can be thought of as a very precise and technical science of ‘states of consciousness’.
Its goal is to open the mind of the human to the universe.
The following exercises can help you to open your mind and slightly change your state of consciousness.
It is preliminary work that will help you in getting a useful mindset for practicing everything you read in this book.
This will allow you to better understand some symbolic concepts and ‘entangle’ with them.
If you become interested and would like to go deeper into these concepts, a further reading you can find very helpful is “The hermetic tradition” of Julius Evola.
Lesson 1
The whole
Symbol of the whole is the circle.


For these exercises it is better if you are in Nature, as you will feel  the shifts better. If you know how to meditate, put yourselves in this state.
1) Calm, open your gaze. Stop your internal dialogue. Feel that the entire universe is divine, it is sacred. Find a way in which you feel it as coagulated light. 
2) Again, see everything around you as coagulated light
3) Now see yourself as coagulated light. Imagine you could look inside yourself and see space and light.
4) See that this light is something you can imagine and direct. As you imagine to direct it. 

Lesson 2
The three principles. The three principles are traditionally body, soul, and spirit (consciousness).
We will now try to get a small grasp on them.
Open your gaze. Stay in your tactile feelings. Stop your internal 
dialogue for a moment . 
Feel that there is a part of yourself which is conscious of the world around you.
The part that is looking outside is your consciousness, the flame of the spirit, your soul endowed with a creating capacity.
Now breathe deeply. Feel that by breathing you can change your vitality and your energy. Vitality is magnetism. It is energy you can use for creating in the world. In some way it is also the soul of the world, as you can perceive the world only because you are alive.
Now relax, and feel your physical body as something staying.
Lesson 3
This is a very simple exercise. Go in front of a mirror.
Look at yourself.
Ask: Who is looking? Who is being looked at?
Feel your body.
Lesson 4


Experiencing the four elements
Stay anew in front of a mirror. Be conscious of who is looking. Think: this is fire, energy.
Feel your body: this is earth
Inhale, exhale: this is air
Look at the image in the mirror: it is you, but from another side: it is water
Lesson 5
Experiencing again the four elements in your mental and emotional states.
be in your physical sensations: think that this is earth.
Be in your emotions: think that this is water.
Notice how you can go from emotion to physical sensations.
Be in your thoughts, this is air. Even the feeling of energy is air.
Be conscious of yourself. This is fire.
Lesson 6
Standing.
Feel the weight of your body
Feel the sky above you
This is the consciousness of the vertical
Aligning the body in the vertical is fundamental for perceiving your position in the universe.

Magnetism outside religious and alchemical context
We have to wait however till the so-called “age of enlightenment” to find testimonies of magnetism outside such religious and alchemic contexts.  

Engraving on a book of Robert Fludd showing the two sides of man
According to Robert Flud, man has two poles, like the earth; and magnetism can only take place when his body is in the proper position. 
Man also has two sides, the positive and the negative, corresponding to the right side and the left side as you can see in the image above.
This idea is exactly parallel to the Indian idea of two energies in man called Ida and Pingala. 
As they are activated together a new energy will be triggered.
In his work, after having examined, on this point, the opinions of various authors, chiefly those of Plato, Pythagoras, Aristotle, and Empedocles, he concludes that, besides the action of the poles in man, which he admits as demonstrated, there exist two principles acting continually upon him, which he thus describes :—" If, when two persons come together, the magnetic rays or emanation they send forth, happen to be repelled, reflected, or repercussed, from the circumference towards the centre, antipathy exists, and magnetism is negative. If, on the contrary, there is abstraction on either side, and a free emission from the centre to the circumference, sympathy takes place, and magnetism is then positive." He admits several species of magnetism; and the evidence he adduces in support of his assertions, is extremely curious.

Robert Boyle
Robert Boyle, the founder of the Royal Society of London, a profound mathematician and learned physician, perceived the action and the reaction which individuals could exert upon one another ; and he admitted a general fluid productive of this result. In his highly esteemed treatise on the corporeal affluences (SHOULD THIS BE  ‘influences’ ) , proving their extreme subtlety, he also established their power and influence.

F. A. Mesmer23, by publicly divulging the system of “animal magnetism”, steers the path towards a new, non-traditional direction, thereby breaking with the need of a religious system as a prerequisite for experiencing a dimension lying beyond matter. He sets out his phenomena which are linked to a retrieved connection with Nature, to such an extent that some people used to liken his ideas to those laid out by Rousseau in his theory of the “Noble Savage”, that is, his ideas about a return to Nature24.
His spectacular healing bouts caused the whole of Europe to speak of him and his method.
 
F.A. Mesmer was putting forward a theory in which a single unified force, one simultaneously linked to consciousness and action on one's body, sustained a world wherein everything was somehow interconnected. 
 

F. A. Mesmer and his secrets
“Animal magnetism is akin to a fire (energy)- You must preserve and develop this fire (energy) and use it”FA Mesmer

F.A. Mesmer did such a work in diffusing magnetism that his name has since then been associated to this discipline.
F.  Anton  Mesmer was born on 23 May 1734, in the village of Iznang near Radolfszell, which lies by the shores of Lake Constance in Swabia. 

Radolfszell in an antique postcard
He attended the school run by the Jesuits, both on account, ostensibly, of the protection extended to him by the Bishop of Constance, which Mesmer’s father served as his personal forester, and on account of the brilliant innate qualities of his intellect. Mesmer grew up by the countryside. His eyes had the advantage of being enchanted by sublime landscapes: The blue waters of the lake reflected the lofty peaks, which were coated by snow all the way till spring. 

Iznang, in front of Radolszell in an antique postcard


When spring came, the trees would be covered by red and white flowers. 

Every season brought with it its own distinct kind of sensations. Nature’s giant book was thrown open in front of his sight.25 

 
A photo of the lake of Constance near Iznang
We point out these elements and show the photos of Constance in order to explain how Mesmerism and animal magnetism are ABSOLUTELY NATURAL. 
If you want to achieve the same powerful results obtained by the ancient magnetizers, it is helpful to get more into contact with Nature and its intuitive meaning.
Do as Mesmer did. Try to get in touch with Nature’s feeling. To better perceive  Nature’s feeling, don’t dwell too much in your mind and thinking. Spend time perceiving what really is.
In our courses we stay often in Nature to achieve the right mindset 

Mesmer drew indeed greater benefit from Nature’s teaching than those he received from his schoolmaster. It has been related that, while still a child, he had a most gripping keenness to come to know the wellsprings of brooks, the course of which he would thus follow backwards until he succeeded in identifying their source: This is a pointer to his pronounced inclination towards researching causes, as well as the prelude to the discoveries he was destined to make. 
We can also see here that all the sciences that deal with intuition and inner senses are connected. If you want to get strong results you must develop your intuition.
 Each day, try to have intuition as your guide in what you do.
When you meet a new person, for a moment bring   your attention inside yourself, and feel which impression s/he transmits you.
If you walk in Nature, feel the “pulse” of Nature. 
Begin by letting intuition guide you in little things, and then move on to broader results.
Sharpen your senses as much as you can!
During these years of freedom, Mesmer’s faculty of observation became sharper. 
He accordingly discerned a fact which later led him to the discovery of animal magnetism: Whenever he drew close to a sick person who was bleeding, he would notice that the bleeding slowed down, whereas it accelerated the moment he moved away from his presence. The inference he drew from it was that something comparable to what healers would put in practice by touching their patients was taking place. 
The eagerness to ascertain what lay at the root of the said phenomenon had already taken a firm hold on him26. At the age of 16, Mesmer was as educated as his schoolmates in spite of his frequent outings to the countryside. 

Thereafter, he pursued his studies further. The only certain thing about this period is that, after completing his education, he refused to devote himself to theology, a discipline he had been earmarked for, preferring instead to consecrate himself to philosophy. It is here that he obtained his first diploma as doctor in 1759. Thereafter, he dedicated himself to medicine. This phase of his life is little known. We might cogently surmise that he simultaneously carried out secret studies of astrology, alchemy and physics (given that they represented largely banned sciences by then). 

Mercury, which in alchemists’ work shares some of the characteristics of Mesmeric fluid

As for medicine, he studied that science under the celebrious Van Swietten, one of the greatest German doctors of that age. He became a doctor in Vienna in 1766. Van Swietten himself wrote a note of encomium for the doctoral thesis Mesmer had submitted.

Still in Wien, Mesmer came to know Mozart, who befriended him. He attended, in Mozart’s company, the gatherings of a number of esoteric circles, and was appreciative of the magnetic power his music possessed.


An image from Die Zauberflöte

The Opera “Die Zauberflöte” (The Magic Flute), belongs to this period and bears the imprints of such esoteric fascination. Mesmer himself was a virtuoso of the harpsichord and the cello.
Once he became settled in that European capital, he successfully practiced medicine in it as well.
Step by step, he perfected his theory.  
Mesmer began to apply magnetism to the treatment of diseases in 1772. His researches immediately aroused interest, and he was therefore invited to speak at conferences in Swabia, Switzerland, Hungary and Bavaria  and at the public hospitals at Berne and Zurich, in the presence of numerous physicians, performed many remarkable cures. On his return to Vienna, he passed through Munich, where his highness the elector of Bavaria consulted him, and sought an explanation of his reported wonders. Accordingly, he performed the magnetic operation on several patients in his presence, and convinced him of the truth of the doctrine. The Academie des Sciences of Bavaria shortly afterwards elected him a member, an honour which Mesmer, in the present probationary state of the science, could not fail to have appreciated. He therefore, in 1776, made a second journey into Bavaria, and was equally successful, curing, among many other interesting cases, M. D'Osterwald, directeur de l'Academie de Munich, who had been suffering under partial amaurosis (loss of sight) and paralysis27. He then returned again to Vienna, where he continued treating magnetically a variety of cases28.
Mesmer often expressed his forceful disapproval of whoever ascribed his healing achievements to some supernatural power, and used to stress the fact that his therapy was but a causative agent which everybody was capable of developing.
Editor’s note: Mesmerism and Magnetism  in fact bring a shade of light on these bouts of healings that modern ways of thinking ascribe to “gifts”. If you practice them you will understand that you can develop the same power inside you.
If you are a therapist, simple exercises, and reconnecting yourselves to a wider dimension can be the starting point for enhancing and empowering your results.

His vast erudition, however, had elevated him to the status of a formidable competitor. His colleagues, stirred by jealousy, disparaged his toils. The knowledgeable bodies of academics, incited against his person by a member of the Society of Jesus, meted out disdain to the fruit of his efforts. The court, too, meddled in the matter, and, at last, he retired from public life in Bavaria, hosted by the Elector, the only one among the Germanic potentates who had understood him, he was in a position to live a quiet life under the protection of such an enlightened prince. In spite of that opportunity, he yearned to accomplish more, as it happens to all those men who believe they are entrusted with a great secret.
No doubt the France of the philosophers and the encyclopaedists would have seemed to him to be the nation with the greatest propensity to welcome new ideas. He accordingly arrived in Paris in 177829. He left Vienna as he was searching for a more world-open, progressive society where he hoped to have better chances to bring his ideas to a breakthrough. It should be noted that he left Vienna equipped with a letter of recommendation written by the Austrian Lord Chancellor, Kaunitz, directed to the Austrian Ambassador in France. His travel to France was accompanied by the physician Leroux. He was 44 years old by then. Mesmer addressed the knowledgeable bodies, pleading with their members to examine his doctrine, which was encapsulated in his famous twenty-seven enunciations  . 

The knowledgeable bodies, however, examined nothing, and contented themselves with feigning an examination of Mesmer’s novel doctrine. The radical nature of his principles, as well as his assertion that it was possible to cure all diseases through a single remedy, brought upon his person the Faculty’s vituperation. The Royal Society of Medicine and the Academy of the Sciences, which were interconnected by joint membership to the same coterie, did not extend any better welcome to his submissions. In the course of nearly four years, while the said dogged fight was going on, Mesmer, with unparalleled cynicism, was mocked, insulted, vilified, and turned into a caricature, into a song, a target of ludicrous embodiment of venality, arrogance and disloyalty, in spite or rather because of the successes he had reaped throughout the world, as well as the warm protection he had received from the queen, not to mention the government’s tacit approval. 

He triumphed over such intrigue in an indirect manner, Having temporarily retired, he returned to Lake Constance after the days he had spent therein in his childhood. He returned to Nature and strove to get as far as he could to the bottom of natural knowledge. Guided by his belief that language and reasoning prevented man from gaining instinctive access to the foundation of his natural power, he went through an intense exercise, steering clear of inner dialogue for a period of three consecutive months. 


Following this period, he came back strengthened, with his senses heightened and an even greater magnetic power.
Editor’s note: we can again see how magnetism is something completely natural. Developing animal magnetism means reconnecting with Nature. 
Practical hint: If you want to really heal people reconnect yourself with the inborn force of Nature.
Ground yourself. Breathe deeply and get into contact with the marvel of the Universe each day. 
If you live in town, look up at the sky, ground yourself, and you will find you will feel more power inside yourself.
From an initial platform of qualities which were already of an eminently higher calibre, as he was knowledgeable, an artist, humorous, amiable and handsome, he further acquired at that stage an extraordinary hold on the frequenters of salons. 
He was, as per Deslon’s description, “a fiery soul in a body of iron”. Such a broad range of pleasing personal qualities won for him the admiration of the prominent personalities and the support of the noblewomen. There was no elegant lady in Paris who did not pay him a visit: Both noblewomen and bourgeois ladies took turns in extolling him. This special esteem in which he was held by members of the gentle sex was said to be a most important factor contributing to the rise of his reputation.
Propelled forward by such powerful engine, his renown within the public opinion grew so much that the esteem he enjoyed surpassed Voltaire’s. The thinking world had split with regard to him into two opposite encampments, believers30 and sceptics, who fiercely vied with one another for supremacy. No man, particularly a foreigner, boasted a power comparable to his in the whole of France; he used to deal with reigning monarchs as one of their peers.

Mesmer soon had more clients than he could treat and decided to do collective treatments.

He was not allowed by the twists of fate, however, to derive enduring advantage from such brilliant social position. Due to the envy and hatred he had aroused among the erudite people, by offering resistance to the prevalent general opinion, he announced his intention to go back to Germany. Whether such announcement was a bluff, as his foes alleged, or it was caused by exhaustion and disappointment, the fact remains that his stated resolution worried the aristocracy. Louis XVI, under pressure to persuade him to stay, which was brought to bear by the high echelons of the kingdom, offered him a stable allowance of sixty thousand ‘livres’ together with a splendid dwelling, which jointly amounted to a capital in excess of one million ‘livres’. 
This austere man declined such offer, stating that he wanted no favour, but only the scientific examination of his discovery. 
Having retired in 1781 to Spa’s thermal baths, where he once more embraced forests and Nature, and where, in 1782, the Marquise de Fleury urged him to open up a nursing home, he was soon summoned back to his trade by the intelligent voice of some four hundred good-hearted people, the pick of noblemen, scientists and jurists, who raised funds in order to be initiated to his doctrine, and set up an association called the Harmony Society in order to disseminate the benefits derived from it. 

As Mesmer, therefore, found himself, thanks to the generosity of his students, the owner of a capital which nearly equalled the one the king had offered him, he decided to busy himself with the task of establishing, in the major cities, a network of premises which were suited to the free of charge treatment of sick people pursuant to his method. He travelled for the sake of actualizing such goal, quite extensively as far as France is concerned. The divulgation of his ideas was constantly on the rise. The Harmony Society boasted booming branches in Strasbourg (the Marquis of Puysegur), Chartres, Lyon (Jean-Baptise Wuillermoz), Amiens, Narbonne, Malta, San Domingo, and so on. The doctrine had been set out in the book called “Théorie du monde et des etres organisés”, which had been edited by Bergasse. In 1784, the Harmony Society (La Societé de l’Harmonie) witnessed its heyday. Puysegur in Buzancy, Orelut in Lyon, and Giraud in Turin, all published reports of bouts of healing.
Meanwhile Lafayette guided Washington on a tour of the Harmony Society on the day following the conclusion of the Versailles Treaty.

Some useful keys for understanding what “Animal Magnetism” really is 
Modern people must open their minds to understand Animal Magnetism. In fact it is simple and natural, but we must break some fixed beliefs to experience it.
I propose that it is important  , first of all, to understand the first part of the name ‘animal magnetism’.
‘Animal’, relates to the animal world. A sure fact is that animals have a bigger sensory acuity than the average human being. Also, while most of the time human beings have ‘concentrated’ attention, and they can dissect the details of a leaf, animals have a wider field of attention. They have an open gaze, and they use not only the central part of the eye (the fovea) to see the universe, but  they also very much develop their peripheral vision.
Aptitude
So, please, direct your mind away from thinking, ( substitute thinking with seeing) and instead allow yourself to open your gaze and your senses. The more you develop sensory acuity in this direction, the more you will be able to understand it.
In our experience, we have observed that many times people who have trained themselves in being alert and attentive, as some military bodies do,  naturally have better results.
Nature
The more you will be in tune with Nature, the better results you will start to notice.
It is not a case that many powerful magnetists lived in the countryside and they had a spontaneous intuition of natural rhythms.
The first discovery of the wonderful feats of somnambulism happened in the countryside.
Healing
How can healing proceed? Now, you must have your intuition at work. If you had a pet, and it were sick, what would you do to help him, supposing there was something that you can do that could be useful for it?
Resorting to words is certainly not useful. 
You would feel inside yourself that there are other powers besides words. First of all your heart. Compassionate thinking would help, but also a strong desire, energy, and the firm belief that you can do something.
You would probably touch it, and you would use your hands.  You would probably look at it. You would probably think of drawing energy from the Nature around you. 
Imagination
Would you use ‘imagination’? Maybe you could imagine the pet in front of you as being healthy. You would rediscover in this way the meaning of the word ‘imagination’ as used by Sir Francis Bacon: “imagination is a force that exerts itself onto another body”. But also most of the time you didn’t imagine. You would simply stay in your feelings. Maybe by doing so, you would also rediscover more force in some particular objects or elements such as the sun in the sky. You would in this way naturally rediscover symbolism and its force. 

In this simple exercise you are rediscovering some of the keys that are at the very basis of Animal Magnetism.
Do they work?
For sure they work, as we have a record of successes beyond any doubt, even on animals.

Magnetism is simple and animal, and precisely for that reason it cannot prove easy to one whose mind is complex. The person who is too present in his thoughts fails to understand it.

Some useful exercises for understanding Mesmer’s philosophy
The concepts of magnetism must be ‘felt’, to be understood.
The key lies in Nature. Animal magnetism means a magnetism which is in touch with Nature.  

1) Stay in Nature – try to feel yourself as part of Nature. Observe the larger things: the sky, the clouds, the mountains. Feel its ‘pulse’ and the pleasant sensation of feeling connected, 
2) Catch the feeling of harmony with the whole. This is your starting point for working, as the goal is also that of allowing your client to feel and live this harmony.
3) While standing also feel the connection between earth and sky. Feel the heaviness of your body.
4) Now, develop your sensory acuity even more, and try to stop your internal dialogue a little. In this space, try to feel the sensations that the things around you give to you.
5) With a friend with closed eyes. Pass your hand near him at a small distance. Have him tell you his impressions.
6) Again, pass your hand near your friend, but looking at him in the eyes.
7) Again, have him close his eyes and pass the hand calmly near the ‘poles’ (without touching). (Note: the ‘poles’ are not yet explained , explanations of the poles will follow soon  )

Do these exercises in a state of calm and concentration. 
Always remember, that magnetism is simple and pleasant. You must keep your mind on concreteness, on your sensory data in order to understand it, without judging what you perceive, but just perceiving it.



The theory of Mesmer
If we delve inside Mesmer’s theory we can discover with amazement that in some way he was well ahead of his time and some of his intuitions are the same as those expressed by actual quantum science. Rediscovering his way of thinking can therefore open the way to a very powerful ‘quantistic hypnotherapy’
Everything is interconnected at a deeper level.
Mesmer's theory is based on the concept of something through which everything in the universe is interconnected. It is something before matter. Lacking other terms, he called it a universal fluid31.
He used this word since he intuitively perceived the connection with other people and that in some way everything is interconnected. 

“All beings of the universe are so connected that it is as if they touched each other.” Mesmer32

One of the most intuitive ways of expressing it is through the concept of a fluid, of which we find similar examples in many cultures. This fluid is the basis of matter, and everything is bathed in the fluid, in a way that makes nothing local. 

"The Coincidences" of human beings and in the world "testify of a general influence" that work on some "medium" or some "fluid" that in some way constitutes and form the mass of the world" Mesmer33

The fluid cannot be touched or seen directly as it is more subtle than the senses. The senses can perceive only some specificity of it.  It can instead be perceived with our intuition, with our whole being, by putting the mind in a specific state as we are bathed in it. 
Note: We see here a striking similitude between this idea of “fluid” and the modern theory of Bohm of the holoverse. In summary, the holographic theory states that material reality is continually unfolding out of, and unfolding back into, a vast ocean of quantum energy, an ocean of undivided totality. Matter, a small ripple on this ocean, is sensed by us in the form of frequencies. These frequencies are transmitted via the nervous system and stored in our minds holographically. Our minds mirror the basic order of the universe.34

Practical hints. 

External reality is but a construct of the senses.
Allow yourself to begin to feel, that what you feel outside you, and what you feel inside you, are two sides of the same way of perceiving the universe.
Therefore nothing in the universe is separate. There is always an influence that manifests it in some way through the action of one thing on other things. 

This concept is thus sketched in practical terms by Wolfart, a German writer on magnetism, held in high reputation: 
" All things in nature possess a particular power, which manifests itself by special actions upon other bodies—viz., a physico-dynamic power acting exteriorly, without chemical union, or without being introduced into the interior of the organization. Mesmer taught that all organic bodies, animals, trees, plants, and also stones, water, & c., might be impregnated with the magnetic fluid, and that this fluid might be propagated to considerable distances. It might be transmitted by direct contact with an already magnetized body, or by means of the hand, the look, or even the will. Like light and electricity, it could penetrate solid and fluid bodies, and it can be reflected by mirrors, or polished surfaces, especially in the direction of the poles." 

Man can get in touch with the universe

Man’s way of getting into contact with the wholeness of the universe is through an ‘internal sense’ which is in reality a ‘union and interlacing’ of the external senses, a ‘wholistic sense’.

We could call it intuition, but developed at its highest level.
Mesmer’s inner sense, the basis of all sensations, reveals things that common sensory experience withhold. In Mesmer’s words the internal sense is “related to the whole universe". It can perceive distant past and future events” While any one sense conveyed only a speci?c sort of impression, the “sensorium commune” receives whole impressions of the world outside.
 
Its role in sensationist physiology and psychology is to embody the mind's openness to the world. Accordingly, Mesmer's sixth sense, which was not an organ, but a wholistic synergy, registers the movements of the universal ?uid through which all events reverberated.
Here too we see a similitude with the modern quantum theory: In a nutshell, the holographic super-theory says that our brains mathematically construct ‘hard’ reality by interpreting frequencies from a dimension transcending time and space. The brain is a hologram perceiving a holographic universe.35 
Practical hint:   
Feel yourself in contact with the whole. Practice disciplines that help you go in this direction such as meditation.
It ought to be observed that when the forces of Nature are set in motion by the will or ‘soul’, it can act at the level of the fluid. This action is compared to that of a flame, which spreads its own energy so long as it has material to feed on.
What we can learn: magnetism is natural and sensations are the basis for understanding it.
Magnetism is the name for something totally natural.
Practical hint: if you are a therapist, before practicing therapy, always try to balance yourself and to put yourself more into contact with the universe. You will see stronger results!

Striking similitudes between the modern Quantum Approach, the Mesmeric theory and Chinese philosophy
“Mesmerism is a science, because it links the vital energy of the human frame with other great forces in nature, and brings our thinking into line with those great philosophical speculations which always seek for unity in nature.” Sinnet – The rationale of Mesmerism
The theory of Mesmer has points in common with the actual formulation of the quantum theory applied to human sciences. Mesmer supposes the existence of a level where everything is connected. He called this “the level of fluid”. The world in which we live is just an expression of this level and of the condensation of the fluid. 

These concepts are very similar to quantum concepts: “particles are merely local condensation of the field. Einstein said, We may therefore regard matter as being constituted by the region of space in which the field is extremely intense. There is no place in this new kind of physics, both for the field and matter, for the field is only the matter” (Capek, 1961:319)
These same concepts are found in Chinese philosophy: “When the chi condenses, its visibility becomes apparent so that the shapes of individual things are seen. Whereas when it disperses, its visibility is no longer apparent and there are no shapes. The Great Void cannot but consist of Chi; this Chi cannot but condense to form all things; and these things cannot but become dispersed, so as to form (once more) the Great Void” (Fung, 1958: 279-228)
For Mesmer everything is flux even if at a broader level we see a fixed universe. Mind in its wholeness can touch and influence this deeper level. It is in this deeper level that instant communication is possible.
Some interesting points in common
Mesmer's Philosophy

Quantistic Ideas

Chinese Philosophy

Level of the Fluid: an implicate level not directly perceivable by senses where everything is connected
Particles as condensation of the field
The chi condenses to form things and after disperses
Mind in its wholeness operates at the level of the fluid
Heisenberg principle and the importance of the observer: every observation depends on the intention of the observer
Mind in its wholeness operates and perceive chi

If we delve into the history, we can discover that Mesmer is a forerunner, and anticipated by two centuries some ideas which were recently expressed in quantum physics.
Furthermore, he offered many practical techniques that even today can be practiced with success.


 “Animal magnetism is akin to a fire (energy)
You must: 
1. Preserve and develop this fire (energy) and use it
2. Remove the obstacles to its proper working
3. Help its development in order to get healing results” Mesmer36




Adding the strength of the Symbol

Symbols are the language of the unconscious mind.
They are realities, and if we stop our internal dialogue they are a key that speaks to our deeper self.
“We should develop a language based on things and images to avoid false meanings”37
Mesmer used a set of symbols to enhance both the results and a specific setting.
Several manuscripts help us to learn about them and we have:
1) a specific set of symbols used to focus the mind in the study of animal magnetism, 
2) a set of alchemical symbols to be placed on the wall (or on the floor) during the séances.
Symbols can entangle with the unconscious mind and help the person to change.
We have used symbols in many ways. The most common feedback we get is that the person feel energized, with an enhanced vitality.
We have also seen in our practical therapeutic experiences that symbols work not only on the mind of the magnetisee, but even on the mind of the magnetiser. They also speed up the operations.
Practical hint: think in symbols and observe how your perception can change. Find your symbols for personal evolution.  Meditate on the meaning of some geometric symbols such as the square, the circle, etc…
    


Fire, Energy and Matter
In Mesmer’s Harmony societies, further secret elements were discussed38. 
These elements were the theories about the real cause of animal magnetism. 
We will give our attention to some elements that are the most important for the practitioner of this art.
First element: The more we advance in our knowledge of magnetism, the more we understand how the spiritual world connects to the material world. In symbols: the fire of internal energy (magnetism) and matter are related.
These elements are intuitions that are very similar to some modern tenets of physics. In modern physics, for example, matter and energy are connected. Mesmer’s idea was the same. 
Magnetism (in the sense of Mesmer) and matter are connected. They are two sides of the same reality. This means that there are no boundaries between the material world and the spiritual world.


Alchemical precedents of Mesmer’s idea
What was said in the Harmony Societies was also the same as the ancient alchemical idea: for the alchemists the primordial emanation comes from the higher level as a fire or light, which then coagulates itself at different stages corresponding to the elements.
We read for example : 
“two are the principles: matter and movement, and 
“fire (energy) is nothing else than matter in an extreme movement”.
Energy (in Mesmer’s words “movement”) creates the world and all the elements of reality (the four elements).
A warm vibration arrives at the basic matter, and is power that must be freed39. 
Fire, using a more modern term, is also ‘Energy’ that is also in man. Animal Magnetism is “an internal fire”.  We must strive to “keep and develop it.”
And further:
Matter without movement is ‘nothing’. But as we get energy in it we have “Beata Materia” or “Benedicta Materia” (holy matter), which is the matter animated by energy.
In magnetism we treat reality as something sacred.

The “Crises”.
"If Art forsakes us, we still have Nature." Mesmer.40 

“Magnetizers have given the name of crises to the remarkable changes which the action of magnetism produces upon those who are subjected to it, or to that state which is different from the natural one, into which they are thrown by its influence” Deleuze
In favourable cases, magnetic procedures will produce results almost immediately.
A specific technique of Mesmer is to create a crisis. The patient will undergo a "crisis" after which he will rapidly recover.
The word crisis means a change in the being of the person with which we work. 
So we will have different types of crises. For example the “magnetic sleep”, where a person remains completely quiet and self absorbed is a crisis. “Here I ought to observe, that the magnetic sleep is of itself essentially restorative. During this sleep, nature  works unassisted; and it is often sufficient to re-establish the equilibrium, and to cure nervous complaints”41.
Somnambulism is another type of crisis and the ecstatic state still another. 
The most intense crises are the convulsions.
These are very impressive.
In reality these should be realized only when needed. 
It ought in fact to be said that Magnetism, whenever approximately correctly employed, prevents convulsions, hysterics, and palpitations of the heart, except in these few and rare cases, where such type of crisis is necessary to remove some load of disease. At the end the person will feel very well and will be relieved from his/her problems.
The method
To begin with, Mesmer would create a harmonious environment  through the use of music and other methods. He would simultaneously energize his patients by means of the “baquet”



The sole remaining example of Mesmer's baquet, on display at the Musée d'Histoire de la médecine et de la Pharmacie, Lyon, France.



(using the bacquet)

He would subsequently invite his patients to let the energy flow away.
This could happen through motions, convulsions, or even by magnetic sleep, by focusing on the blocked energy.  Such a process, if it is carried out well, is able to gradually lead to the energy being allowed to flow out beyond the usual circumscribed schemes, as well as to a progressive expansion of consciousness. A conscious attention, in fact, breaks the link between bodily tensions and thought processes, and leads to a process of transformation. 

Mesmer said: "An illness cannot be cured without a crisis; a crisis is an effort of nature against an illness, tending by an increase of motion of the force, attention, and action of the magnetic fluid, to disperse the obstacles which oppose the circulation, to dissolve and evacuate the atoms which formed them, and to re-establish the harmony and equilibrium of all the parts of the body.”
Editor’s note: this idea has sense not only on the physical plane, where Mesmer got most of his results, but also on the psychological one. 
Energy is at the basis of everything. Let’s say for example that we have a thought as “I feel bad”. That thought has a certain amount of energy. In provocative therapy we can increase its energy to arrive at a breaking point. Adding energy always changes the state. Even the psychotherapy of Milton Erickson has a prescription for depression: get the person active i.e: get the energy moving.
Heinrich Schreiber, a young Freiburg historian healed by Mesmer, records the following: "I had suffered with considerable hoarseness, with oppression of the chest, and coughing. The first strokes produced in me a mild feeling of flowing warmth...After I felt a burning and an extraordinary powerful, and quite involuntary, respiration...Gradually the sensations ceased to be painful. I began to have a great inclination to sleep... the crisis passed”42.
Mesmer again says: "Crises are more or less evident, more or less salutary, natural or forced; natural crises should not be imputed but to nature, which acts efficaciously upon the cause of the illness, and gets rid of it by different excreations, as in fevers, where Nature alone triumphs over what was noxious to her, and discharges it by spontaneous vomiting, &c. &c.
"The crises the less evident are those in which Nature acts secretly, without violence, by breaking slowly the obstacles which stopped the circulation, and throwing them off by imperceptible perspiration. “
"When Nature is not sufficient towards bringing on a crisis, she may be assisted by magnetism, which, used according to the means already indicated, effects conjointly with her the necessary revolution; and this is salutary, when, on its having been experienced, the patient feels better and relieved, and especially when it is followed by advantageous evacuations.”
When a crisis is supposed to have reached its proper state—and which is shown by a general calmness—it may be allowed to wear itself out; or when it appears to have been sufficient, the patient may be withdrawn from the state of sleep or stupor in which he has been.
"It is seldom that a natural crisis is not beneficial.
"But both kinds of crises often throw the patient into a cataleptic state, which is not alarming; and it often ends with a crisis.”43
Allowing and accepting: to have the energy move in the best way is to allow and accept it. In this way the excesses will dissipate. 

Mesmer’s Poles
Another additional element that if used can benefit our clients are the mesmeric ‘poles’. These are centers, or areas, of energy. Their knowledge allows us to increase results.
The sickness is an unbalance. Using the concept of poles we can bring the person back on its axis.
A method is the use of two hands around the sick part44. These, even without touching, but with the firm intention of doing well and with the concomitant perception of a “stream of energy”,  brings "the magnet on its center"(Mesmer) 45 In other words we  instantly realign the person.
There also exist some ‘natural’ poles which we could use.
These are points that will naturally ‘balance the person’ when touched.
These are specific zones on the human body where nerves cross and we can create reactions..
Poles in this case remind us of the eastern concept of ‘chakras’ even if their use is more specific to magnetism.
Editor’s note. It is possible to practice magnetism even by simply touching these zones. Sometimes the whole treatment can be concentrated in the correct touch of one pole executed without speaking. What we get is a gradual relaxation of the person, and transformation of the perceptions of the subject. From a quantistic point of view, poles can be viewed as points, where we access a deeper implicate level. A point in which we can reabsorb the excess energy of the system. 
Let us now examine some technical aspects of such magnetism as most books don’t delve too much into their explanation 46.
The ‘poles’, are specific points in the body with an intrinsic capacity to facilitate energy to be unblocked and flow properly, as well as to help the process of incorporation, that is, the entry by harmonious ideas in the totality of the body. 
Different types of “poles”
1. The first one is called ‘the black pole’. It goes left and right and down until the navel and the hypocondria. In this pole there are normally obstructions. Working on it can be very pleasant for the person, and  also gives a sense of calm and peace.
2. A second pole is the lombo-sacral pole. 
3. A third pole is the breast pole. It is called the white pole. It goes until the bottom lip in the upper side, and until the black pole in the bottom side.
4. The fourth pole is the mouth pole. It goes from the nose until the black pole in men and from the mouth until the white pole in women. Working on this pole and at the same time on the black pole is very healthy.
5. The fifth pole goes from the nose until the top of the head, and from the nose until the upper lip. It also includes the ears. We work on this pole when we have mental problems or we want to heighten the spirit.
6. The sixth pole is the eye pole. Its action connects with the same pole in the magnetisee. To get results, the right eye must look at the left eye in both the operator and the subject. This pole is very strong between people of a different sex to enhance energy and to boost the tone.
7. The seventh pole is the hands pole and can combine with the others in order to create the equators. It is the easiest one to use. To use it you must join the two index fingers one toward the other and in the middle the part you want to magnetize. You will get there the same warmth that you get on the black pole when you are well magnetized.

The poles are important because through magnetism, we establish contact not just with the mind, but with the body as well, nay, especially with the body.
It is precisely by using the body as our departure point that we are capable of acting directly both on a full range of physiological functions and on the physical foundation of emotions. Each emotion has indeed its own physical equivalent it is related to, in the form of a specific sensation which is experienced in the body. 
If, for instance, we are ‘tense’, what we are experiencing consists in a physical sensation, just as being ‘enraged’ is an event which is lived (for most people) at the level of the stomach. The problem, normally, is not represented by the existence of the emotion per se, but in the fact that such emotion remains ‘trapped’ in the body. Magnetism offers us a very simple and harmonious way of releasing these trapped emotions.
How to release emotions
In the ordinary course, our thought processes are what give rise to such a trapping block; and they have a propensity to perpetuate it. When it comes to animals and children, emotion does not last long. Conversely, in adults it has a tendency to be trapped inwardly and turn into a chronic state. In fact, every symptom which is kept alive for a sufficiently long time is prone to ‘entrenching itself’ in the body. An interiorized emotion might generate pathologies, even of a serious nature. 
By resorting to magnetism, a solution is found for the pathological condition in a somatic way, by acting on those points where the emotion/energy identifies itself.
In magnetism, one accordingly starts from the premise of a natural idea of healthiness and well-being, whereupon those two conditions are restored and can often get results almost instantly.  
The person will normally feel the body rebalancing itself and the energies find their natural way.
Energy guides thoughts
In most cases, there is no need to act on the verbal superstructure which has occasioned the block in the first place. All that is required, in order to attain successful results, is merely to create a state of receptiveness through words or fascination (looking in the subject’s eyes). 

From this point of view, magnetism differentiates itself from the spectrum of psychological methodologies, inasmuch as it does not deem it necessary to act on the so-called conscious mind, which in fact often witnesses the results thus accomplished in a state of astonishment.  
In some instances, it is even possible to extract results from partly sceptical subjects. That is due to the fact that we operate at a level which is not directly linked to the conscious mind.
We can see the bodily points where we experience the emotion as the ‘trapping point’ of energy, or even, by utilizing an alternative set of terms, as the point in which the emotion becomes absorbed into the body and lives inside it.
In quantum point of view these points are gateway to a deeper level, and, the moment the problem is overcome, the subject feels an increase in energy and well-being. ** SUGGESTED ADDITION ** Due to the re-direction of energy from its dissipated channels of expression, into a total overall flow, thus restoring health.   
Our second brain
A very important physical point in this regard consists in the epigastrium.
Modern science confirms the fact that such area hosts a kind of ‘second brain’. Modern hypnotherapy and psychology are too often focused solely on the mind, although scientific researches have given abundant proof of the significant role played by the body. It is precisely for this reason, to clarify the extent of significance that such an ‘enteric brain’ possesses, that I penned my book titled “Awakening your other brain”.

This brain is called enteric because it is here that many of the elements that are peculiar to the brain, beginning with the neurotransmitters, are produced and utilized. 

There is, therefore, a preferential channel linking stomach and head, one that ensures our actions, both instinctive and rational, are always endowed with a deep visceral component. The brain is not the only regulatory tool, as all the other physiological processes in turn regulate it .
By having recourse to magnetic methodology, we are accordingly given the chance to act on these and other similar types of internal variables, and to ‘speak to the body’ even though no word is being used. In such a way, we can lend assistance to a large number of reactions by the immune system. What is in fact situated in the intestine represents an important link between the cells of the immune system and those of the nervous system. This interrelationship is so close that the distance between neuron and lymphocyte is far less than the one subsisting between two different neurons. ( There is in fact an area of Hypnotic procedure named P.N.I ‘Psycho-Neuro-Immunology’ similar to some of the principles of ‘autoscopy’ as experiments by Dr. Sollier researched in 1923 in Paris, and similar to the concepts refered to in this passage. ) 
P-S – Eugene Gendlin made the observation that those clients who healed quicker in hypnotherapy were those who took the time to ‘feel inside the body for answers’ this is also important to obtain cues, from what are recognized as subconscious indicators, regarded by Bandler and Grinder ( NLP ) as being of superior quality to the ordinary ‘arbitrary’ Ideo Motor Response ( I.M.R.) finger signalling used in many classical Hypnotherapy sessions. The fact that the belly represented a preferential point within the emotional component was a truth already known by ancient forms of medicine, both Western (specifically the ones from which magnetism springs forth) and Eastern. One can discern interesting concordances with the Japanese methodologies wherein the hara is vested with extensive importance as a centre of energy.
In addition, many traditions speak of chakras, that is, the areas where the energy exchanges between body and environment take place.
The chakra of emotion and instinctive response is located in the stomach, and is given in the West the name chakra of the solar plexus.

Use of the gaze
Our first-hand experience has subsequently confirmed to us what even F.A. Mesmer already used to practice: The look, by halting thought processes, is able to help and speed up the unblocking of emotions. In addition, it is still possible even to operate purely in a manual way.
There is a difference between the two eyes. In general it is better to look in the left eye. In some way the left eye is the ‘passive eye’ and will help in putting our client in a positive mood.


Harmony, Connection to the Universe, Nature as keys for a healthy life
Harmony as a basic principle
The goal of magnetism is the restoration of harmony.
The idea of animal magnetism is that man, cutting himself out of Nature, creates imbalances.
These imbalances will be enhanced by wrong diets, wrong behaviours until we arrive at a time when it becomes impossible for balance to return in a natural way.  
Magnetism is a method aimed at restoring this lost harmony.
It rebalances the rhythms of the body, through a work helped by the presence of another person.
Even the convulsions that sometimes characterize the mesmeric therapy are simply energetic reorganizations, that in the end give     place to a pleasant feeling of fullness.
Connection to the Universe

An important message we can derive from mesmeric techniques is the idea of reconnecting and gaining resources for ourselves from the universe.
Mesmer’s studies of Astronomy and Astrology, had as their goal the highlighting of the connection between man and the Universe.
Everybody, standing at night and looking at the star on the sky understands, that recovering the connection to a higher universal dimension is the basis of health. Even the psychological side feels that it can be more aligned and open.

After having denied them, science has now recognized the importance of natural rhythms. It must still investigate the mysterious relationship between man and the Universe. 
Practical Suggestion
Cultivate harmony in yourselves. We must strive to balance ourselves and to be in harmony with Nature.
( Any suggested methods here ? ) ..  Imagine that a very dis-connected reader asks .. ‘how do I do that ?’ ***

Remarkable points of the original Mesmeric technique.
Non verbal
It is completely natural
Most of the sicknesses and problems it heals are problems that even today traditional medicine cannot solve 
Extremely successful and pleasant for the subject
Its principles are not linear, but more similar to quantum thinking


Some examples of Mesmer’s healings
Here are some healings of F. A. Mesmer
"When I presented the said *** to M. Mesmer ... her left eye was profoundly sunk into his socket, and probably softened. The right eye ... was covered with a thick grey film, so that this lady was absolutely blind." Mesmer said that he could do nothing for the left eye. But after four or five weeks of treatment, the film had gone from the right eye, the eye had been brought back into position, and the patient could see very well" 47
Giraud, a physician of Turin, describes many cases of Mesmer’s healing.
He witnessed many Mesmer's healings, cites a high proportion of rheumatic cases, menstrual disorders, all successfully treated.
He cites also the case of a man of sixty years having suffered for ten years from a perfect hemiplegia of the left side. He was admitted to magnetic treatment in May. Before the end of June he could walk and move his arm.
In another similar case the patients conventional remedies had no effect; by May magnetic treatment was begun: by the end of June the patient was able to walk and make some arm movements. 
 
Some other curious Mesmer’s feats
Mesmer loved to show, on many occasions his energy.
From the notes reported by Thouret, in his "Recherches et Doutes,"48:
Mesmer being one day with Messrs. Camp*** and d'E*** near the great basin of Meudon, proposed that they should pass alternately round to the other side of the basin, while he remained in his place. He made them plunge a cane into the water, and plunged his own into it. At this distance, M. Camp*** experienced an attack of the asthma, and M. d'E*** a pain in the side, to which he was subject. Some persons have been seen who were not able to sustain the experiment without fainting.
One day Mesmer was walking in the woods of the country beyond Orleans. Two girls taking advantage of the freedom of the country, went ahead of the company to chase him. He began to run; but suddenly turning round, he presented his cane towards them, forbidding them to come further: immediately their knees bent under them, and they could not advance.
One evening Mesmer went into the garden of M. le prince de Soubise, with six persons. He prepared a tree, and a short time after, M'me la M. de ***, and Mesdemoiselles de Pr*** and P*** fell senseless. M'me la D*** de T*** held on to the tree without power to leave it. M. le C*** de Mons* was obliged to sit down on a bank, not being able to sustain himself on his limbs. I do not recollect what effect M. Ang****, a very strong man, experienced, but it was terrible. Mesmer then called his servant to take away the bodies; but, I do not know how it was, although well accustomed to this sort of scene, even he found himself in no condition to act. It was necessary to wait a long time for each one to come to himself.

The first Royal Commission

“There is in Mesmerism the existence of a power which, if properly directed and controlled, I may be found eminently serviceable in increasing the happiness of human kind.” F.A. Mesmer

Returning to the history of Mesmer, once Mesmer had proven his doctrine through the medium of unexpected instances of healing, which were visible and undoubted witnesses of the truth, magnetism was confronted by the most intriguing passions being unleashed against it, and it was compelled to endure an unceasing fight against numerous and powerful adversaries. Such bitter wrangle has invariably gone one, with greater or lesser fierceness, between defenders and opponents of the new science. 

In fact the novelty of Mesmer’s theory that we have seen in the preceding pages is so striking that it is modern even today, as it interprets in practical ways some tenets of quantum science. More, it worked, and Mesmer had an incredible number of patients. So it is not strange that French establishment couldn’t easily accept it.

The fight eventually reached a censurable degree, since insults and slanders lay bare men’s stark selfishness without contributing to genuine scientific progress one bit. 

In 1784, however, one of his disciples, Deslon, was once again subjected to an examination by one of the commissions of the Academy, which had refuted animal magnetism49 50 . In addition, a secret report addressed to the King at the same time stressed the possibility that magnetism might lead to attacks being mounted against social decorum by encouraging intermingling between men and women51.

There is also a possible political reason that many scholars have pointed to.
It ought to be said a that when in march 1784 Breteuil, minister at the Maison du Roi, set up Royal Commissions to investigate the claims of animal magnetism, it is likely that he was in part actuated by other motives that those which had led d'Eslon to push the matter52. 
Mesmer's Societies of Harmony53 had “a reputation for democracy: persons of different ranks met there on terms of equality”. 'The time has come for the revolution which France needs, but to operate in public could condemn it to failure," said Bergasse, a disciple of Mesmer - "one has to unite people under the pretext of physical experiments, in reality however for the purpose of the overthrow of the tyranny"54. 
Mesmer himself was not politically active, but some feature of his doctrine could be given a political gloss, especially his frequent talk of his patients' need to achieve harmony55. Thus a negative rapport of the commissions suited the government very well.56

This first academic commission rejected the theory (not the facts) of animal magnetism.

It is to note that in 1820 a second academic commission accepted it fully.

The first commission was held in 1784, when, some commissioners, who were selected from the whole spectrum of scientific bodies, were entrusted by the King with the task of conducting researches and experiments on animal magnetism, so that the government might be enabled to reach a decision on the degree of trust to be extended to the effectiveness of the influence exercised by such method. I will abstain here from addressing the issue of the malevolence, which characterized the way the said commission discharged its mandate. 
Suffice it to say that the final report it drew up was totally inimical to Mesmer’s doctrine though the famous Jussieu57, one of the commissioners, refused to sign it as he said it did not express the truth. Jussieu authored a dissenting report, in which he carefully enumerated the facts that had been intentionally omitted or distorted by the first report (the majority one).
Some scholars have pointed out how the commission made an epistemological error that became highly controversial after the reports were published: “They took care “not to be too attentive“ to their own impressions. In response to Mesmer’s argument for the reality of his animal magnetic Fluid from the sensibilities of his patients, the commissioners adopted a policy of deliberate insensibility. They professed to avoid having too “?xed” an attention. Animal magnetism, if real, should forcibly “?x their attention” for them. To focus too intently upon one’s own sensations was to risk producing imagined ones from within.” One historian has summarized the commissioners’ efforts to ignore their internal sensations as the strenuous avoidance of “self-absorption”. Not only reason but sensation, they now realized, could, if misdirected by the imagination, have an inward focus. The results of this deliberately inattentive self-experimentation amounted to little: only one commissioner on a single occasion felt a pain in his belly that lasted all day and was accompanied by fatigue and malaise. But he attributed these symptoms to the “powerful pressure” that had been exerted on his chronically delicate stomach by a zealous magnetizer”58. 
Nevertheless, some of the phenomena they witnessed were of so striking a nature, that they gave rise to expressions of surprise. " Nothing is more astonishing," says the report, "than the spectacle presented by these convulsions, by the sympathies which are established between the parties, and which we cannot explain by the causes above-mentioned." 
Due to the fact that some of the phenomena produced were so strong Jussieu refused to sign the report, notwithstanding the solicitations of his colleagues, and the threats of the Minister.59
Jussieu published a separate report, in which he declared that the experiments he had made, and those he had witnessed, had convinced him that man can produce upon man a positive action by means of friction, by contact, more rarely by mere approximation, and even when at some distance; that this action—attributed to a universal fluid, the existence of which had not been proved—appeared to him to depend upon the original heat existing in bodies, from which it is constantly emanating, extending to some distance, and even passing from one body into another; that it is developed, increased, or diminished in the body by moral and physical causes; that, judging from its effects, it possesses the properties of tonic remedies, producing, like them, salutary or prejudicial results, according to the quantity imparted, and to the circumstances under which it is employed; and that a more extensive use of this agent would produce a better knowledge of its true action and of the extent of its utility.”
The step he took gave rise to rumours and high-profile scandals which rocked the upper echelons of the scientific elite. 

We read for example in the Memoirs and Recollections of Count Segur, the ambassador at the courts of Russia and Prussia who was a practising mesmerist:
" I was accompanied," observes the Count, " in this singular school by men whose names are not without some weight in the scale, since among them I am enabled to cite those of Count de Gebelin, Olavides, d'Espremenel, de Jaucourt, de Chastellux, de Choiseul, Gouffier, de la Fayette, and a crowd of other persons distinguished in letters and the sciences, without mentioning medical men who were secretly concerned in the business, and who will no doubt give me credit for not writing them on my list as bashful Mesmerians, privately agreeing there was some truth in the discovery, but censuring it openly out of respect for the faculty." He then relates the following anecdote :—" The queen one day, entered on this subject with me, and seemed to take a pleasure in repeating all the severe and amusing jokes which were circulated in such abundance at our expense. It was in vain that I wished to discuss the matter; she would not hear me, and merely said,—How can you expect us to listen to your follies, when seven commissioners of the Academy of Sciences have declared that your magnetism is only the effect of a heated imagination?' Madam, replied I, rather hurt by the above remark, I respect this learned decree, but as veterinary surgeons have magnetised horses, and produced effects of which they attest the veracity, I could wish to be informed whether it was those horses that had too much imagination, or whether it was the learned doctors who were deficient in it. She laughed, and thus ended our conversation on animal magnetism."60 

It was, however, mostly due to a number of internecine struggles of an economic nature which plagued the Harmony Society, that Mesmer, who felt the figures recorded in its accounting books were being intentionally tampered with, decided to settle for 20000 francs and leave the country instead of having to worry about the internal fight in the society. He made this decision in    1785, boosted by a hefty sum he was able to carry along. 
Once he was gone, his opponents went on a rampage, causing Mesmer to spend a lot of time writing retorting libels61 which targeted their accusations62.
He spent a short time in London before he set out for Italy and Germany, while still making some trips to France, strictly in disguise. He was for example spotted in Paris in 1793, on the day of the public execution of Bailly, who had been one of his most passionate antagonists and had chaired the 1784 Commission. Mesmer was the only person, amid an audience intoxicated by fury or paralyzed by fear, to cordially greet him 63.
Immediately thereafter, in fact, the revolution broke out in 1789. Its avalanche caught his noble disciples as well.
Nearly all the members of this cream of gentlemen, perched at that time on the summit of the collapsing building, atoned for their errors. As for the rest, they forgot about mesmerism, embroiled as they were in the unfolding of such colossal drama. Meanwhile, the creator of mesmerism sympathized with many of the ideas the revolution had highlighted. The consequence thereof is that he had to forego the plan of settling back in Wien, since he was viewed as politically suspect, and he retraced his steps to Paris several times. 
In 1802, while in that city, he asked for and was awarded a yearly allowance of 3000 florins as compensation for the money he had lost in the Revolution. In 1803, some of his friends solicited him to open up a new establishment devoted to the implementation of magnetic treatments, but Mesmer turned down their request. The war had consigned him to inaction; several friends of his had died, and he decided instead to take up residence in Switzerland. In 1809, he penned a letter to one of his friends, wherein he mentioned to him that he was spending a happy life of quiet and anonymity, untroubled by problems or by neighbours and people who could recognize him. He added in that missive, though, that he was still practicing his Art, and was always visited by plentiful patients, many of whom he would treat free of charge. In the meantime, the Academy of Berlin formally acknowledged the validity of Mesmer’s ideas and dispatched Prof. Wolfart to him with a view to inviting him to move to Berlin in Germany. However, Mesmer, who was by then an old man, was no longer keen to travel. Prof. Wolfart accordingly collected his memories, all the way until Mesmer met his death in Switzerland, on 5 March 1815.


His stormy life, his doctrine and the events which saw him as a protagonist are superbly summarised in the following extract from a letter he wrote to a friend of his in 1783 :

«My existence resembles the life of those men who, by combining strong and far-ranging ideas, have reached either a big lie or a big truth. Such people belong to that error or that truth, and, depending on whether the same is accepted or rejected, they live amid admiration or die in unfortunate conditions. However hard they try to regain their primordial independence, to detach their destiny, that is, from the one befalling the system they have originated, all they do is to engage in futile efforts. Their work is akin to Sisyphus’ -, since the latter, regardless of his actual intention, causes the rock smashing him to pieces to fall over his body: Nothing can remove them from the work they themselves have imposed on their persons».

On the bottom of an image of Mesmer we can read:

“Mille jaloux esprits en vain t’ont voulu nuire,
Mesmer, par tes soins généraux,
Nos maux ont disparu, l’humanité respire.
Pursuis tes destins glorieux
Quoique la jalousie en gronde!
Qu’il est beau, qu’il est grand d’avoir des envieux
En faisant la Bonheur du monde”64

(“Thousands of jealous people wanted to harm you, Mesmer,
But thanks to your generous cures 
our pains have vanished, humanity leaves anew
Continue toward your destiny
Even if jealousy is everywhere!
It is good to have envying people
Because we do good to the others”) 

Afterwards, France, too, witnessed a number of turnabouts, while in 1831 the Royal Academy of Paris recognized the existence of animal magnetism, as well as the wonderful effects of induced somnambulism.

If we leave aside all the irritating aspects one can discern in those attacks and the replies thereto, I believe we will find greater usefulness and significance in paying intelligent attention to the fact that the issues were studied and acknowledged by the scientific institutions, first and foremost the Royal Academy of Medicine in Paris itself, as it was forced, by the sheer logic of plain facts, to pay tribute to the truth.

Mesmer's absence was in fact long regretted by a large section of the upper and middle classes. Referring to the effects produced by his treatment, and the regrets caused by his departure, a highly-esteemed poet of that day expressed himself in the following terms :—
" Tous se felicitoient de leurs metamorphoses, 
  La vieille Egle croyoit voir renaitre ses roses ; 
  Le vieillard decrepit, se ranimant peu-a-peu, 
  D'un retour de sante menacoit son neveu ; 
  La jeune homme a vingt ans, ride" par la mollesse, 
  Se promettoit encore quelques jours de jeunesse. 

Mesmer courut ailleurs porter son art aimable ; 
Chaque malade au fond de son appartement 
Tout seul avec ses maux s'enterra tristement, 
Et des remedes vains implorant la puissance, 
II perdit le plus doux en perdant l'esperance."65

The insurgence of magnetism as a turning point in history
"Considered...[from] the philosophical point of view, animal magnetism is the most pregnant of all discoveries that have ever been made, altough for the time being it propounds rather than solves riddles. It is really practical metaphysics..[A] time will come when philosophy, animal magnetism, and natural science...will shed so bright a light on one another that truths will be discovered at which we could not otherwise hope to arrive" (Schopenauer)

Magnetism represents a turning point in European history. 
For historians, the emergence in 1784 of the magnetic phenomena is a very remarkable fact. It is apparently an enigma.66
At the very same moment when everything seemed to be explained we have an incredible diffusion of some practices that come from the most ancient past.
These practices seem magical in their effects. 
And even more curious, it is not in the low level of the population that they find their first diffusion, but instead in the most cultivated and advanced.
Magnetism has a very aristocratic and high level origin. 
The powers that magnetists show are the same as in some shamanic traditions: seeing events at a distance, seeing inside their body, having a natural intuition of the healing remedies.
Previously, Mesmer’s accounts of such wonderful feats were present, but not so diffused.
In reality a high level tradition met some traditional practices of healing bringing new and powerful results.
What Mesmer did was to reactivate ancient knowledge into a new frame. He put together:
1. His experiences in healing
2. An alchemical and esoteric philosophical background which was until this moment restricted only to an élite
3. His lucidity and experimental mindset
4. His experience as a physician
After Mesmer, new streams developed each one of which further developed one of the many aspects of this discipline.
 
Magnetism (and Hypnotism) after Mesmer – The splitting into various streams
“The principle of study, which it is my foremost desire to impress on those who will listen to me, is this: Let all who wish to read about mesmerism go back to the fountain-head of the subject and explore the voluminous writings of the early French school. In that literature the real foundations of our knowledge of mesmerism were laid. There we shall find, it is true, some traces of a most pardonable, if not praiseworthy, excitement and enthusiasm in reference to the wonderful beneficence of the new revelation which mesmeric discoveries seemed to embody. There we shall read of some procedure in which we shall fail to discern the true workings of Mesmer's own ideas” Sinnet – The rationale of Mesmerism

Mesmerism, as it is the recognition of the principle of vitality inside man, continued to be practiced after Mesmer and began to be recognized by many European nations as a valid healing method.
Accounts of healing continued to arrive and the practitioners became more and more numerous.
In 1825, Doctor Foissac addressed to the Academy a memory in which he proved that the time had come to submit magnetism to a new examination. This memory was taken into account. The Academy then examined anew whether it should engage in a re-examination of magnetism in the first place. As a commission appointed by the Academy had issued its motivated opinion that such re-examination was appropriate, the opponents of magnetism deployed the oddest arguments against the said opinion, which are set out here under:

— If, one of such antagonists said, the hopes of magnetism are raised once more, we will soon be forced to halt our courses and shut down our schools, waiting for them to be conclusively demolished. — Another such adversary was afraid that, with the help of distance magnetism, some magnetizer might burst out from his attic in Paris and eventually dethrone the rulers of China and Japan. — Yet a third such foe could only countenance the existence of two classes of magnetizers: Deceivers and deceived.  
Notwithstanding such assortment of hostile arguments, the commission settled the matter by favouring the said opinion. One of the remarkable reasons it adduced as the basis for supporting such opinion was its declaration that « the judgment passed in 1784» by the commissioners mandated by the King to examine animal magnetism should in no way derogate from the need to carry out a new examination, since in the field of sciences no judgment whatsoever should be taken as being absolute and irrevocable in nature».

On 14 February 1826, the aforesaid opinion was adopted with a favourable vote of thirty-five to twenty-five, as a result of which, on the 25th day of the selfsame month, a new commission was vested with the duty to conduct a renewed examination of magnetism. 

After a six-year period of studies and conscientious researches, along with a large number of corroborating facts, the  commission, in its report drawn up in June 1831, declared that magnetic action had the ability to triumph over diseases which were impregnable to the most vigorous therapies. The existence of the science of magnetism was thus officially recognized by virtue of this favourable formal report.

In the course of the subsequent centuries, however, the battle between the ruling academy and the magnetists resumed. 
Furthermore, magnetists split themselves up into different groups and created different systems, each one with its own validity and purpose.

1800-1900
For a brief sketch of the history of animal Magnetism from the time of Mesmer to the rise of what is known as Hypnotism, we must include not only the vicissitudes of Animal Magnetism during that period, but also take into consideration four other systems: 
1. Braidism (or the Hypnotism of Braid) 
2. Statusvolism, 
3. Pathetism, 
4. Electrical Psychology (better known as Electro-biology).


These systems differ from both Animal Magnetism and Modern Hypnotism, as well as from each other, although all are closely connected;
 
1900 -2000
The preceding systems evolved in the 1900s in the following way:
Hypnotism (Braidism) merged with a part of Electrobiology in America and gave rise to what was there called “hypnosis”
In Europe Hypnotism (Fascination and Braidism) merged with magnetism and gave rise to the concept of “Hypnomagnetism”, which was a very standard practice present before the arrival on the continent of the concepts of American “hypnosis”.
In America Pathetism merged with magnetism and gave rise to modern “Spiritual healing practices”
In Europe Animal Magnetism continued on its own under the name of “Magnetism”.

So all the different systems persisted under different names until today. Unless they are taken into consideration, the Hypnotic practices of our day seem little more than a jumble of conflicting theories and a chaos of unexplained phenomena. Even when taken into account, these various systems do not complete the data for a comprehensive theory; but at all events they make it clear that the problem to be solved is very imperfectly conceived by our hypnotists, who have overlooked some of the most important and interesting questions involved in the subject they undertake to explain.


The “Second Commission,” and what led to its Appointment
“There is in Mesmerism the existence of a power which, if properly directed and controlled, I may be found eminently serviceable in increasing the happiness of human kind.” G. Sandby

When Mesmer retired back to his native country, the judgment pronounced by the commissioners was attacked from all quarters. More and more people were aware of the positivity of the practice.
The Commission had, it was evident, substantiated the facts of animal magnetism, and in endeavoring to overthrow the theory of Mesmer had only hazarded another infinitely more untenable. A society existed at Strasburg, which published annals, wherein immediately appeared facts of magnetisation which the explanation of the Academy could not account for; and reports to the same effect, from Nantes, Bordeaux, and Lyons, also appeared.
But that which shook the respect which many might have entertained for the decision of these royal commissioners, was, that M. Jussieu dissented from his brother commissioners, and drew up a counter-report of his own, wherein he also attested the facts of animal magnetism, and only proposed another theory in explanation of them. Instead, therefore, of these commissioners settling the disputed point as to the existence or nonexistence of animal magnetism, their reports only gave the subject an additional interest and the cause of magnetism was embraced by a sizeable number of new supporters.67  

Societies for the investigation and propagation of the doctrine, under the name of " Societes de l'Harmonie," were formed throughout France, Germany, and Switzerland, and many distinguished persons were initiated into its secrets. The Society de l'Harmonie, at Strasburg alone, was composed of one hundred and eighty members, and proces-verbaux, or affidavits attesting the treatment and cure of various cases, were deposited
with public notaries, and printed copies of them distributed in all directions - With these proces-verbaux, sums of money were also left with the notary as a reward for any persons who could detect any fraud or deception in the statements they contained.
 
While animal magnetism was thus making a steady and rapid progress in France, political events, which shook the foundations of society, absorbed every consideration. The French revolution broke out, and threw a temporary cloud over science, literature, and the arts. Many of the Societies de l'Harmonie were dissolved, and the patrons and disciples of Mesmer expatriated for reasons of personal safety, carrying with them the discovery of animal magnetism back to their native lands, and diffusing its principles throughout Germany and Holland, Sweden and Russia. Several of the pupils of Mesmer carried the doctrine as far as America: thus do all great truths, in spite of every opposition, gradually become diffused over the face of the civilized globe. When the terrors of the French revolution had subsided, and society in some measure recovered its equilibrium, animal magnetism participated in the advancement of the other sciences. 
After all these changes, the schools of animal magnetism began to re-establish and re-organize themselves. It was found that its friends and partisans were divided into two distinct and almost antagonistic parties.

Mesmeric “crisis” 
Germany
The first party was chiefly in Germany. In almost all the university towns, public lectures on the subject of mesmerism were given; and in this country, it was fully accepted and practiced. Mesmer's original theory was of the existence of a universal medium or “fluid”. The free and regular circulation of it through a human being produced health, while any obstruction, or impediment to that free circulation, caused disease; and this party naturally adopted the practices or methods of Mesmer's School, namely, the touchings, pressures and pointings, and the baquets, and chains, are usually associated with the name of Mesmer.
Prof. Ennemoser, one of the main practitioners stated: Mesmerism is based on experiences that everybody can have. These experiences are solidly grounded in the field of Knowledge.
The Science Academy of Berlin, which had previously denounced Mesmer as a visionary, then offered a prize consisting of 3,300 francs—for the best explanatory thesis on the science. 
In the year 1815, a public hospital was established in Berlin, in which no medicines were used. Only Mesmerism and the prescriptions of lucid somnambulists were adopted. The eminent Hufeland, originally an unbeliever, was the principal physician of this hospital; and fifteen volumes containing the clinical details of the cases treated magnetically were published68.
Mesmerism was also very developed in Germany under a philosophical point of view. The German mesmerists showed the romanticist attraction to seeking universal truths.
They perceived in Mesmer's magnetic fluid the justification for the notion that the Universe was a living organism. Mesmers’ idea of a sixth sense which endowed humans in trance with prophetic abilities and getting in touch with the whole universe, moved them to search how this technique would enable the human mind to communicate with the “World Soul”.69
France
The other party, located chiefly in France, worked in other directions. It accepted the theory of the Puysegurean or Experimental School, that sickness arises from want of an adequate supply of the vital magnetism which is degenerated by the organism itself, and which one person can impart to another, or aid him in extracting from the circumambient ether; corresponding to which theory there was a different set of processes that were mostly used70, namely, the fixation, of the eye and breathings, which had developed out of De Puysegur's discoveries, first of lucid Somnambulism, and then of the “passes” as a method of operating without actual contact between operator and subject. A vast series of exercises for developing vitality and the concentration of the Will were also practiced.

Puysegur and his mysterious discovery
 
Chateau de Buzancy


“To feel, one needs neither intellect nor science, and Magnetism is felt better than it can be expressed” De Puysegur

Puysegur technique
I will now give you the theory of the Magnetic fluid, with the method of directing that fluid as adopted by the Marquis de Puysegur, for if you can grasp the spirit of the idea, it will greatly assist you in formulating your Will-power when practicing.
Changes in theory
As Mesmer left the scene, the theory of the universal fluid underwent a considerable modification, inasmuch as the agent was soon believed by the Magnetiser to be a peculiar vital fluid, secreted or accumulated more or less in the brain, and of which the nerves acted as conductors. 
This fluid was described as being subservient to the Will of the Magnetiser, who by his act of volition could control its influence, propel it externally or internally, and direct it so as to accumulate in any part of the living body. In accordance with these views the following are the directions- which the- Marquis de Puysegur gave for conducting the operation: 'You are,' said he, 'to consider yourself as a magnet, your arms, and particularly your hands, being its poles, and when you touch a Patient by laying one of your hands on his back, and the other in direct opposition in front of him, you are to imagine that the Magnetic fluid has a tendency to circulate from- one hand to the other through the body of the Patient. You can vary the position, but always act where the greatest number of nerves converge.”
Puysegur’s discovery of somnambulism
In May 1784, M. de Puysegur71, living in retirement on his estate of Buzancy, near Soissons, magnetized and healed several persons successfully in the preceding way, but then on one occasion he chanced to observe the production of an entirely new72 phenomenon!73 
A young peasant named Victor, twenty-three years of age, who had been suffering for four days from inflammation of the lungs, was thrown by magnetism into a peaceful sleep, unaccompanied by convulsions or suffering. He spoke aloud, and was busied about his private affairs. It was easy to change the direction of his thoughts, to inspire him with cheerful sentiments. He then became happy, and imagined that he was firing at a mark or dancing at a village fete. In his waking state he was simple and foolish, but during the crisis his intelligence was remarkable; there was no need of speaking to him. Some sort of telepathic communication was at work since he could understand and reply to the thoughts of those present. He also demonstrated a phenomenon that would later have been called “clairvoyance”: while in this kind of sleep he himself indicated the treatment necessary for his illness, and he was soon cured.
Below is the direct account of the peasant Victor's case. 
"After ten days' rest at my estate, without attending to anything but my repose and my gardens, I had occasion to enter the house of my steward. His daughter was suffering from a violent toothache; I asked her in jest if she wished to be cured; she, of course, consented. I had not been ten minutes magnetising her, when her pain was completely gone; and she felt no return of it after. 
"Another woman was cured on the following day of the same affection, and in as short a time. This slight success made me try to do some good for a peasant, about twenty-three years of age, who had been keeping his bed for four days in consequence of inflammation on his chest. I went to see him: it was last Tuesday, the fourth of this month, at eight o'clock in the evening; the fever had just become lighter. I made him get out of bed and magnetised him.”
After a quarter of an hour to my surprise I saw this person fall into a tranquil sleep in my arms, free of pain or convulsions. I urged on the crisis, which caused him some giddiness in the head: he spoke aloud of his ordinary affairs. When I thought his ideas might affect him disagreeably, I stopped them, and began to inspire him with others of a more pleasant and lively turn. It required no great efforts on my part to accomplish this. Then I saw him quite happy, fancying that he was dancing. I cherished these ideas in him, and thereby I forced him to move himself with considerable activity on his chair, as if he were to dance to an air  which, by singing mentally, I made him repeat quite loudly. By these means I made the patient sweat profusely from that day. After an hour's crisis I quieted him, and left the room. A drink was now given to him, and having ordered some bread and broth to be brought to him, I made him eat a considerable quantity on that same evening, which is something he had not been able to do for the last five days. He slept that entire night; and the next day, not remembering my visit of the previous evening, he informed me of the improved state of his health. I gave him two crises: Wednesday and Thursday I had the satisfaction of seeing him affected merely with a slight shivering. Every day I had the patient's feet put into water for the space of three hours, and gave him two crises a day. Today (Saturday) the shivering lasted less time than usual, his appetite was kept up, he enjoyed a good night's rest; lastly, I had the satisfaction of seeing him perceptibly better, and I expect that in the next three days he will resume his usual employments, etc." 74
Puysegur was discovering somnambulism. Mesmer already knew about it, but rarely applied it.

Dans l’état de sommeil l’homme sent ses rapports avec toute la Nature – in the state of (magnetic) sleep the human being is in contact with all of Nature75

He also discovered that people in somnambulism could react at a distance.
"According to my usual practice," says Puysegur, "I was magnetizing ... and after a quarter of an hour's attention and concentration on my part, and perfect tranquility on his, he told me that he felt nothing. As he had no complaint, this appeared to me quite natural. I however again pressed him between both my hands, merely to try whether I would be more successful; but he felt no more this second time than he had the first. I was at length about to leave him, when, on slowly removing my hand from his stomach, he fetched a sigh, and complained that I was hurting him. As I was not touching him, I could not at first believe it; but he hastily took my hand and lowered it, saying that it stopped his breath. I quickly brought myself again into contact with him, expecting that he would now feel a more intense sensation, but it proved quite the contrary; the pressure of my hand had no effect whatsoever. Upon removing it to a distance of about one foot away from him, he again complained; at two feet distance, he felt a weight on his breast, and desired me to withdraw. I then drew myself back by degrees, and stopped only when he told me his pain was gone and he felt nothing. I was then five paces from him; I magnetized him at that distance by a slow and circular oscillation of my hand; and immediately his head reclined on his shoulder, and somnambulism supervened."
In reality all the records pertaining to mesmerism, both early and recent, teem with illustrations of the way in which magnetic influence from a distance has been successfully exerted upon persons who were quite unprepared to expect it. 
This concept also teams up with the idea we have presented at the beginning of this book regarding a form of “quantum entanglement” between operator and subject taking effect.
The news of his cure was rapidly spread abroad, and from all sides there was a concourse of sick people demanding relief. The phenomena were repeated, to Puysegur's great joy, and he wrote: "My head is turned with joy, now that I see what good I am doing." 
What we learn from Puysegur: with magnetism it is possible to induce a stable state. In this state healing can occur. Similar states of stability can also come about when working with magnetism on animals. They are more stable on the ground, and they let themselves go after few passes.
Since he was unable to minister to the continually increasing number of patients, the marquis pursued Mesmer's plan of magnetizing an elm which grew on the village green at Buzancy. 
 
The patients were seated on stone benches round this tree, with cords connecting its branches with the affected parts of their bodies, and they formed a chain by linking their thumbs together. Meanwhile de Puysegur chose from among his patients several subjects who, through contact with his hands or on the presentation of a metallic tractor, fell into the ordinary crisis, and this soon passed into a sleep in which all physical faculties appeared to be suspended, while the mental faculties were enlarged.
Puysegur had in fact strong attention to Nature. He called his process vegeto-magnetic
He brought the attention also on the importance of the air in helping the magnetic process.
Intuitively affirmed that “the air is the fluid”76, in the same way as in the Indian practice of Yoga the air is ‘prana’, vital force.
Editor’s note: the act of breathing is fundamental even for the operator. All magnetists do breathing exercises. In the morning do 3 or 4 deep breathings. Do the same before working with your client. If you practice magnetism you will increase your results.
Healing through enlargement of faculties
The whole collection of Puysegur’s writings embodies an immense accumulation of experiences with clairvoyant persons during illness in respect to their own maladies. No recent writings on mesmerism in its medical aspect have an equal value with these, for de Puysegur, working with straightforward and earnest faith in his own power of alleviating suffering with the help of Mesmerism, attained brilliant successes, and above all — for later students of the subject — has done unrivaled service in investigating the prophetic and clairvoyant faculties of mesmeric patients, not only in reference to their own but in respect also of other persons' ailments. On this development of their powers he says: 
“Of all the facts of magnetism the most inexplicable, and above all the least conceivable, is, without doubt, that of the vision possessed by patients in a perfect state of somnambulism in reference to the sufferings of others and the knowledge which they show of the remedies and measures necessary for their cure. . . . Anyhow, although there is no known phenomena (in other branches of science) to which one can compare the faculty — the fact is nevertheless real, as certain as the other manifestations of somnambulism already recognized." 

De Puysegur gives full details of the cases of both this and  the simpler kinds of clairvoyance — in reference to the patients' own illnesses — that he had the opportunity of observing.


De Puysegur “Artificial somnambulism”











Cloquet, an eye-witness,77 has given us some valuable information on the subject. He says that the patient's eyes were closed, and there was no sense of hearing, unless it was awakened by the master's voice. Care was taken not to touch the patient during his crisis, nor even the chair on which he was seated, as this would produce suffering and convulsions, which could only be subdued by the master. To rouse them from the trance, the master touched the patient's eyes, or said, "Go and embrace the tree." Then they arose, still asleep, went straight to the tree, and soon afterwards opened their eyes. As soon as they returned to a normal condition, the patients retained no recollection of what had occurred during the three or four hours' crisis.

But it was the cure of diseases at which de Puysegur aimed: therapeutics was his object, as it had been that of Mesmer. He observed, or thought that he observed, that during the crisis, the patients possessed a supernatural power which entitled them to be called physicians; it was, in fact, enough for them to touch through his clothes the sick person presented to them, in order to feel the part affected, and to indicate fitting remedies.
The somnambulist” … “points out the remedies by which his fellow-creatures can be cured, or relieved of their sufferings. I have met with patients of such extreme delicacy of taste, as to be able to choose their remedies with extraordinary sagacity. Hippocrates has said: "In our dreams we can perceive those aliments which best suit our constitutions."

A somnambulist, on touching a patient, generally feels at the instant the pain of the latter in the corresponding part of his own body. This pain is only momentary; sometimes, however, it lasts until the somnambulist awakes. A somnambulist can trace an illness from its beginning, and sometimes discover its cause at very remote periods. (Alphonse Didier)

  
De Puysegur – 1751 -1825
Editor’s note: The fact observed by de Puysegur and his successors is the ability of the magnetized person to indicate by him/herself the treatment necessary for the illness. This is the recovery of a dormant human capacity that has been observed as present even in animals.
For example Dr. Eloy Rodriguez, Richard Wrangham and the famous chimpanzee expert Jane Goodall have studied primates’ innate ability to self-select plants78. Primates have been observed finding plants that, travelling through their stomach picked up internal parasites and worms. We can think that the same ability of finding what can heal him is present in man.
We can use this capacity in our hypnotherapy sessions to help people find solutions on their own.
Magnetism as a healing treatment working on everybody
Since they were solely occupied with the question of therapeutics, de Puysegur and the other magnetizers who followed his example in Lyons, Bordeaux, Bayonne, Marseilles, etc., did not study the natural history of this artificial sleep. 
De Puysegur, like Mesmer, was a healer. But in the case of de Puysegur's treatment we agree with Dechambre that if his faith was robust, likewise was his honesty. 
There was no public exhibition, nothing was done to strike the imagination; there was no selection of subjects from among silly or melancholic women.
The patients of the marquis were patients of both sexes of the peasant class, and were often suffering from severe and obstinate diseases. 
In fact this kind of treatment worked even on animals.
Magnetism on Animals
For example, the Comte de Puységur, brother of the Marquis de Puységur, was second in command of the Regiment of Languedoc when he practiced animal magnetism to heal a dog which had been injured by an angry soldier. The Comte de Puységur approached the animal, which seemed to be barely alive, and applied magnetic passes. The dog was restored to good health in the space of a few minutes. This seems to be one of the first examples in the literature of animal magnetism of the application of magnetic healing to an animal79.
Even Deleuze observed that a dog that had been previously magnetized for some slight pains, came back, and by its demeanour seemed to require the same remedy.80
Developing the Somnambulistic Faculties.
"Of all the discoveries," said M. Deleuze, "which have, since the remotest times, excited public attention, that of somnambulism is certainly the best adapted towards enlightening us respecting man's nature and attributes. The phenomena it lays before us demonstrate the distinction of two substances—the twofold existence of the inward man in a single individual, a direct proof of the spirituality of the soul, and a reply to all the objections which have been raised in denying its immortality. They are also evidence of that truth, so well known to the ancients, that man is an intelligence served by organs."
“The external organs of sense are all, or nearly all, asleep; and yet he experiences sensations, but by another means. There is roused in him an internal sense, which is perhaps the centre of the others, or a sort of instinct, which enlightens him in respect to his own preservation.”
Magnetic Ecstasy
Another wonderful magnetic phenomenon is magnetic ecstasy.
Ecstasy is a state where the mind of the ecstatic does not reflect, it simply contemplates; and the more it contemplates the more absorbed it becomes. 
Maybe we can trace it back to some hermetic-alchemical practices.
An ancient Western tradition is represented by the athanor. The athanor is a three-tier oven, and it is the symbol of the human organism in which the great work of regeneration is
effected.81

The three-tier symbol82 is the same as the Eastern concept of the three tan tien, which differentiates between three areas of the body (cinnabar fields), corresponding to the area of
the navel, the heart and the head.83

In the Chinese tradition, one finds a manner of operating which gradually ascends from the lower to the higher tan tien. In magnetism we can equally bring energy to the top of head. We
create in this way what is called “magnetic ecstasy”.
Physiologically this point of the body (also called ‘vertex’) could be envisioned somewhat connected to the pituitary gland, which secretes hormones to communicate to the rest of the endocrine system and also connects to the central nervous system via the hypothalamus. The thalamus is thought to have a key role in the physical basis of consciousness.
In magnetism we can do the same and get to expanded state of consciousness..
The results depend on practice. Music can enhance results. When we reproduce this state in our seminars people tell us it is incredibly restoring and peaceful.
The theories of Puysegur
As far as de Puysegur's theoretic views are concerned, there were some important modifications of those of Mesmer. 

"It is concerning our sensations that Mesmer has come to enlighten us and his doctrine tends to lend support to all truths that until now, spoke only to the mind" De Puysegur

Less versed in physical science as his master, he always maintains the existence of an universal fluid, of which he recognizes the electric nature; but he simplifies the process: this fluid saturates all bodies, and especially the human body, which has a perfect electric organization, and is an animated electric machine. Man can display this electric fluid at pleasure, and diffuse it externally by his movements, in order to produce somnambulism. 
In any case de Puysegur was not very bothered with theory. He affirmed that the main point was “croyez et veuillez” which means “believe and will”.
Further it was better explained that the “belief” was not to be intended as blind belief in the outcome, as otherwise this branch of magnetism would not be called experimental, but instead in belief to the possibilities and capabilities of the magnetizer to get results84.
In this way de Puysegur modified the tradition he had received from Mesmer, and simple contact or spoken orders were substituted for the use of the baquet. There were no more violent crises, accompanied by cries, sobs, and the contortions of an attack of hysteria; instead, there was a calm, peaceful, healthy, and composed slumber. This was not a transformed phase of magnetism, but the actual discovery of this state, the honour of which is due to de Puysegur.

“Among the curative crises which evolved, the most remarkable of all is that called somnambulism. In these crises, the external senses are alone impregnated with the principle of feeling. A great development is received, and an extraordinary instinct exhibits itself in the patient, who then acquires an internal knowledge as well as the remedies suitable to his disorder; sometimes even his senses become so delicate as to enable him to perceive the morbid causes and their remedies.” A. Didier

Two different complementary approaches
Germany
Mesmer's original theory of a universal medium or “fluid”, the free and regular circulation of which through a human being produced health, while any obstruction, or impediment to that free circulation, caused disease
France
Puysegurean or Experimental School: sickness arises from want of an adequate supply of the vital magnetism which is degenerated by the organism itself, and which one person can impart to another, or aid him in extracting from the circum-ambient ether
This approach echoes Paracelsus’ theory and it is similar to some oriental views.
To make it work it is necessary to put intention and “let things happen”. 

This second theory is more simple and centered on the individual and its influence. In quantum terms it is an entanglement or cointrication: As the operator is entangled together with the subject the subject will feel the energy85. The subject will feel it. The more the subject lets his mind free the better it is. 
 



Different situations
France
At the end of the first quarter of the1800s, Animal Magnetism   in France was in a condition which might be called “dead and alive;” not because it was half dead or dying, but because it was declared and believed to be dead by the Academies of Science, Societies of Medicine, and other learned bodies. It was also treated as non-existent by the great majority of doctors,  because at the same time it appeared to be very much alive by reason of the steady spread of its doctrines by enthusiasts, both lay and medical, who made up for the deficiency in number through earnestness and courage. 


Other countries
In Germany, Austria, Russia, and some other countries, the doctrines of Mesmer had been accepted almost officially, if not by the Faculty, at least by the Governments. For these had made laws restricting the practice of Animal Magnetism to medical men, and in some instances had made a knowledge of Magnetism an item in the education of the doctor. 
The influence of Puysegur
In France, the ideas and manipulations of De Puysegur had supplanted those of Mesmer to a very large extent, and several hundreds of local centres of magnetic practice and propaganda had been established throughout all the French Provinces on these lines, most of which were conducted by medical men, although there was no law in France limiting the practice of Animal Magnetism to the doctors. 
The consequence of this departure of the magnetisers along diverging roads was an estrangement between the Mesmerian and the Puysegurian magnetizers. This caused a weakening to the movement as a whole. In the countries which followed Mesmer, his theory of disease and cures done by his methods, became the sole consideration, and this made Animal Magnetism a medical question, with which the public had apparently no greater moral right to interfere than they had legal right. As the large majority of the doctors were deeply prejudiced against Magnetism, and steadily refused to have anything to say about it, or even to hear about it, Animal Magnetism declined more and more as its older and more enthusiastic supporters and practitioners died off. 
In France, on the contrary, the independence of the new or Puysgurian School of Magnetism, from technical theories of disease and the extraordinary phenomena which the “passes” and other new methods of inducing the magnetic condition produced, as well as the absence of any law restricting the practice of Magnetism to medical men, who as a rule did not believe in it, and were opposed to its use, had the effect of creating a popular interest in Magnetism. This popular interest, after a time, forced the Faculty to open its eyes to the subject, with the result (as I have shown in a previous volume) that the doctors set about to prove that the "higher" phenomena of Magnetism were fraudulent, by the application of torture to make the supposed deceiver break down and confess.
The result of the cruel testing of sleeping patients, however, was to convince a large number of medical men of the genuineness of the phenomena. 
A great many of the strongest advocates and ablest practitioners of the new method of treating disease (for such Animal Magnetism was regarded) were at first its determined opponents; and painful reading as are the accounts of the tortures inflicted on the unfortunate sensitives to satisfy skeptical doctors, that martyrdom bore fruit in the shape of a continually growing number of converts; and among the believers in the reality of Animal Magnetism were men of world-wide reputation, such as Cuvier, La Place, A. Von Humbolt, Lavater, Gall, and a host of lesser lights; and in England such men as Coleridge and Dugald Stewart. After all, the brutality of these tests - tests which tended first of all to awaken curiosity, and then to produce conviction – evinced a higher level of intelligence than the obstinate incredulity, silly ridicule, and ignorant slanders and abuse on which later generations of medical men have so often been content to rest their denials.

The emergence of new powerful Magnetic phenomena
“I enter cheerfully on the task, satisfied that if the most incredulous of my antagonists will only witness and investigate the phenomena, they will become convinced of their reality” 
Jules du Potet de Sennevoy

“Man can, through his will, and the power of that faculty by which he moves and breathes, often exercise upon his fellow-creatures a certain indescribable influence. This is that principle which has received the name of animal magnetism.”
Alphonse Didier

There can be no doubt that the magnetisers in the early part of the 19th century called upon the world to believe in the occurrence of a number of phenomena, which to the educated but superficial materialists of that time must have appeared to be nothing short of impossibilities.
But it must be remembered that the belief that they asked for was the intellectual belief that follows demonstration, not the emotional belief that follows assertion. If I ask you to believe that the square root of 4356 is 66, you will probably make the calculation for yourself before you feel convinced, for you know that, however honest I may be, I may have made a mistake; but if I ask you to believe that Joshua made the sun to stand still, you must believe me, if you do so at all, simply because you are so good as to take my word for it as your teacher. 
Now the belief which the magnetisers asked for was of the former kind, which cannot even exist without proof. 
They proved what they said.
Indeed they did not, properly speaking, ask the incredulous to believe, but to investigate, knowing very well that the belief they wished for would follow honest investigation, as certainly as that it could not exist without proof. The ‘faith’ or ‘belief’ the necessity for which the magnetisers proclaimed, did not refer to skeptics, nor even to their subjects, but to those who were already convinced intellectually, or were at least willing to be convinced, for the faith needed was the confidence of the Magnetiser in his own power, which enabled him to put away all emotional doubt about being able to exercise that power, of the possession of which he had already been convinced, or was prepared to become convinced if it were proved by him experimentally to be a reality.
If you want to practice magnetism and mesmerism you must have belief in your capabilities as you can do more than you think possible if you would simply allow it.
The points which the magnetisers at that time undertook to prove are thus stated by Baron Dupotet, who himself did so much to demonstrate them, and which he regarded as then “incontrovertibly established”. It will be remarked that these different "points," which the magnetizers undertook to prove, and the doctors to disprove, have little to say to the cure of disease, the one object of the school of Mesmer; for at this time the side issue of the “higher” phenomena had taken the place of the curative effects, which the doctors refused to examine, precisely as they refuse to examine them at this day.
“1st. While the organs of the senses are in a state of complete insensibility, unexcitable by any external stimuli, they (the somnambules) mentally take cognizance of the conditions and relations of surrounding objects through some other channel than the organs through which such impressions are generally conveyed.
“2nd. There is in many cases an obvious vicarious transference of the senses from their appropriate organs to other parts of the nervous system, as to the tips of the fingers, epigastrium, and other parts of the body.
“3rd. The lucidity of their vision penetrates through intervening opaque objects, and even takes cognizance of events passing at a distance.
“4th. They possess the faculty of self-intuition, that is to say, a clear insight into the normal or abnormal condition of their own organization, and they perceive and describe with exactness the internal condition also of those with whom they may be in rapport.
“5th. They appear endowed with a knowledge beyond that which they ordinarily possess, and prescribe for themselves, as well as for those with whom they are in rapport, remedies for such complaints as they may be afflicted with; and these are generally found successful.
“6th. Their lucid vision often extends beyond the present existence, and they foretell, with circumstantial minuteness, events which will happen in connection with their own organization; even the day and hour the very moment-when such predictions will be verified is accurately specified.
“7th.    Upon  recovering   from   their  somnambulism,  they remember  nothing  which occurred  during  the  magnetic  state;  but when  again  thrown into  somnambulism, the  memory between  the two  magnetic  states  is continuous."
The Chevalier de Lausanne and the importance of developing sensitivity
Animal Magnetism relies on our sensory acuity.
Animals have more sensitivity than human beings.
Developing sensory acuity means not only seeing all simple physical elements around you, but also being conscious of a world of sensorial messages that we filter out most of the time.
Scientists have observed that as we look at an object, for example a wall, we also gain a “feeling” of it. This feeling is partly constituted by our past experiences in touching similar objects, but it also contains some other information that relies more on a space that people call “intuition”.  
In our modern culture we unconsciously filter many of these elements when they reach our senses.
We must strive to recover them. Animals and children are probably naturally sensitive to them. We too we must recover this sensitivity, since it means recovering a part of ourselves.

The chevalier de Lausanne was one of the first mesmerists: he described the method created by a certain Bruno, who worked not only with magnetic induction, but also with psychic diagnosis:
1. Establish contact by means of the thumb, 
2. Hold it for the space of a few minutes; 
3. Have an active Will while centering your attention on the Subject. 
4. Then resort to passes, performing them very slowly, along the arms, and in front of the body from head to feet, or, at least, as low down as the knees. (Passes are slow movements near the body )
5. Gradually draw away from the Subject, continuing the passes just at the distance of an inch, and only give sufficient tension to his hands to maintain them in position. 
6. While passing his hands before the Patient, at a distance of three or four inches, the Magnetiser will experience a sensation of heat or cold. When he is at level with the part affected, his own body will exhale a certain vapor, that is, fluid—which goes in the direction of the part affected."
The psychical qualifications of a Magnetiser would have to be developed in order to carry this process out in the true spirit of Bruno. Specifically you must develop the magnetic gaze and the sensitivity. 
Toward this aim the instructions that De Lausanne himself gave and which we have put below are very useful:
What you must feel using DeLausanne’s method
“Here I will tell you what you will experience, in a manner more or less sensible, perhaps the first time, or maybe at the end of eight or ten sittings, or even only at the end of some months of practice. I am ignorant whether there are persons who have not the necessary temperament to obtain this end. To determine this, it would be requisite to know whether they who have never attained it, have not like me failed in patience and perseverance in their researches, and whether the habit of magnetizing without taking notice of their sensations, has not hindered them from following the necessary course to develop them.
Editor’s note: in our experience this sensitivity is something that everybody can awaken. It is a natural body capability.
These are the three phenomena, and this is the advantage derivable from them.
1. While drawing your hands slowly before your patient at the distance of three or four inches, and holding your fingers slightly bent, you will feel, either at the ends of the fingers, or at the palm of the hand, different sensations as they pass along before the affected organ of the patient. These sensations will be either of cold, or of prickly heat, or of slight pain, or of numbness. They will indicate to you the principal seat of the disease, and consequently the part upon which you ought to direct the action.
2. You may experience a feeling of pain or a difficulty in the internal organs of your body, corresponding with those which are affected in your patient. This is a sympathetic action noticed in many somnambulists. It is evident that this sensation intimates to us the seat and the nature of the disease. I will add one thing, the reason of which I will soon explain. If you experience pain in an organ on the right or on the left of your body, you should first approach by little and little to render the sensation more strong, and then withdraw yourself gradually to the distance of two or three feet; for it may be that the affected organ of your patient may act at a little distance upon the organ in you which is opposite; that his spleen, for instance, may make its action be felt upon your liver; but by withdrawing yourself, you may be sure that the sensation will be transferred from the right, to the analogous organ on the left.
3. And here there is something more important which has been unhappily too much neglected in our day. You will perceive, as it were, a vapor which escapes from certain parts of the body of your patient and takes a certain direction. This vapor will act upon you as a slight force which will attract or repel your hand, and which will conduct it from one place to another, provided you abandon yourself entirely to its action.
These are what are called the currents. The faculty of perceiving them is often acquired only after a time, longer or shorter; but when they are once recognized, you will follow them naturally, you magnetize as it were by instinct; you will second nature by carrying the vital action upon the deficient organ; you will augment or moderate your force at will. It is by these currents that the analogous organs of the magnetizer are sometimes affected.
The currents will enable you to perceive a crisis which is at hand. They also indicate the moment when it is terminated, for then calmness is re-established. You are withdrawn far from the body, and you feel nothing further to attract you to it. They also enable you to discover the principal focus of the disease, and they direct you to follow all its ramifications. A very severe disorder of the liver, or of the spleen, or of some other viscus of the abdomen, is often accompanied with no pain in that organ; but it produces either headaches, or ophthalmias, or earaches, or appearances of an affection of the chest. The currents conduct you to the part where the cause of the disease resides, they direct your action, they can even indicate to the physician the remedies to be employed to aid and favor the work of nature, excited by magnetism.
It is almost useless to say that to observe the currents carefully, the magnetizer must be free from distraction; but it is well to remark, that when he has once habituated himself to being directed by them, he needs to make no effort of attention to follow them.”
Editor’s note: It is almost clear how the higher results of magnetism are achievable only by developing an inner sensitivity. But as you uncover them, you will notice that magnetism is something that pertains to your very same Nature. It is something that has always been there and just needed to be reawakened
Following your intuition will create a powerful synergy with your client and will make him sense deep rapport with you. This will be the basis for a powerful positive transformation.
Enhancing your own sensitivity
If you want to practice the method of the Chevalier de Lausanne with other people, begin by developing your own sensitivity.
Slowly pass your hand along your own body, and discover the different sensations you feel.
At the beginning it can be difficult, but with the time you will discover different sensations in different parts of the body.

Magnetism and the point of view of the reductionists
Since the time when Mesmer first brought his discoveries to the attention of the scientific world the students of the phenomena which he evoked have been hopelessly at variance. That they should entertain diverse theories regarding the cause of phenomena so strange and full of mystery is natural. “That they should, in the absence of knowledge of the subject, abuse and vilify each other because of their differences of opinion, was to be expected. Hatred of our neighbor because his problematical theories do not agree with our undemonstrable hypotheses is, unfortunately, one of the salient weaknesses of human nature”86. 
As soon  as  it  was  found  that  the  theories  of  the magnetizers were not exactly new, and that the phenomena were  certainly  not  all simulation  and fraud, but that instead many of them were very true, those  phenomena  were, in  turn,  declared  by the  opponents  of  Magnetism  to   be  quite  old  and  stale,  and to have occurred in every age, having been attributed either   to  God or to Satan, as the case might  be; moreover,  the   Royal   Commissioners  of 1784  had  for ever  settled  the   question  of  their  source  by authoritatively declaring them to be due to imagination, and, therefore, imaginary, unreal, and unworthy of serious consideration.  This   assertion    that    the   phenomena were not new, of  course,  cut both ways,  just as did the contention   that   Mesmer's  theories  were  not  original; so    both   sides   set   to   work   to   unearth   accounts   of insensibility  to  pain,   prevision,  clairvoyance,   thought reading, trance,  and  so  on,  occurring  spontaneously in former times,  and attributed to a supernatural  source - the  enemies of  Magnetism  arguing  that  such  products of  the  imagination   were of  no  greater  significance  or importance  now  than in  bygone  ages;  and  the  friends of  Mesmer maintaining that the fact  that they produced at  will  the very same  extraordinary  bodily and  mental states which were acknowledged to occur  spontaneously, was positive proof  of   the  genuineness  of those phenomena, and of  the   importance   of their science.
To estimate the  value  of  the  evidence  afforded  by spontaneously  occurring phenomena,  one  should  know all about the artificially induced  phenomena  which they resemble; but to describe and compare them would be an endless task, and everyone has a general idea of the mesmeric phenomena, whether he believes in their actuality or not. Those phenomena, although briefly describable in general terms, vary immensely in detail; and their description is scattered through hundreds of forgotten treatises, pamphlets, journals, memoirs, and reports. The phenomena in question vary extremely even in the same subject, from one occasion to another; and there is hardly an item, either of theory or practice, about which differences of opinion did not exist among the mesmerizers themselves. 
For example, Dr. Elliotson, who may be regarded as one of the latest of the “early fathers” of Magnetism, never consciously exerted any will power, and attributed all the effects to the manipulations. 
Again, Dr. Bertrand wrote a valuable book on Somnambulism (in 1828), and yet he looked upon Animal Magnetism (the "fluid") as a “chimera,” Some magnetizers regarded Cerebro- or Phreno-magnetism as a discovery due to Mesmerism which was fraught with more benefit to humanity than even the cure of disease; while others considered it a complete delusion. Some writers give emphatic warnings about the dangers of Magnetism; others declare that it never does any harm. Some say that the strong and healthy are the best subjects, others the weak and diseased. Some declare that almost everyone can be mesmerized, others that only a comparatively small proportion are susceptible, differences of opinion which are curiously paralleled by our present hypnotists.
We find among the old writers on Magnetism the same tendency that many of our modern hypnotists evince, to generalize from insufficient data; and also to make their own respective experiences the limit of possibility. The Experimentalist operators, or followers of De Puysegur, differed considerably among themselves in regard to the proportions in which, when inducing the magnetic state, they combined the pressings, touchings, strokings, and benevolent intentions of the earlier school, with the passes, fixation of the eyes, and conscious exertion of the will, of the later; and the effects produced differed correspondingly. 
Some magnetizers, for instance, never, or hardly ever, developed clairvoyance in their subjects; while others met with it frequently. Some were extremely successful in inducing anesthesia and analgesia; others found it almost impossible to obtain complete unconsciousness, or insensibility to pain. These differences were, no doubt, in great part owing to differences of method for inducing the magnetic condition, although the idiosyncrasies of both the operator and of the subject in all cases counted for much. On one point, however, all magnetizers agree: They prescribe complete silence during the process of inducing the magnetic condition; and this differentiates them very decidedly from the modern Suggestionist school.

Different methods for doing Animal Magnetism

Mesmer’s method
Mesmer required his patients to be silently attentive to their own sensations, for then the internal energy which the Royal Commissioners called “imagination” intensified those sensations, and conduced to a crisis; and although the patients at the baquet did not maintain silence, it was about their own and each other's symptoms and feelings that they conversed, and this helped on the positive crisis by promoting the mysterious influence which the Commissioners called “imitation.” 



Mesmer also used symbols which in quantistic terms  “entangled” with them the reactions of the subjects. 

The experimental school
The Experimental school enjoined silence, and told their patients not to examine their own sensations, but to "think of nothing," because it was found that any disturbance, bodily or mental, caused an arrest of the magnetising process at the "intermediate" stage; and they regarded that arrest as a misfortune, because the subject then became a mere echo of the operator, a mere automaton in his hands; and this not only prevented the development of introvision and “medical instinct,” on which the magnetic physician placed great reliance for diagnosis and prescription, but it made the production of the deep sleep and cataleptic rigidity more difficult; and on these, instead of on the crises, the magnetizers of the Experimentalist school depended greatly for the general health-giving effect of Magnetism, as distinguished from the curative action of local passes, breathings, and other manipulations. 



There is a similarity between the above system and Milton Erickson’s modern approach although there are still three main differences:
Everything is done non-verbally
Energy (and not the unconscious) is a postulate
The aim is toward the higher level of consciousness

In quantum terms we can think that with this approach the operator ‘entangles’ himself with the subject. The subject should think of nothing in order to destroy the coherent state which results from the induction.
. 
It must be remembered that, although the old magnetizers  were perfectly aware of the influence of suggestions, they did not consider them as something of importance and of psychological interest, but rather considered the "suggestible" condition as an imperfect magnetic state. 
Suggestion, in fact, is a separate branch of these psycho-physical phenomena. It was avoided and ignored instead of being studied, because it was considered as a disturbing influence, which interfered with the development of the magnetic state, and with the action of the Magnetism; although   suggestion was also undoubtedly continually employed in some form, when it was deemed necessary. 
In fact when they did use suggestions they tried to make use of the so-called ‘mental suggestions’ and wrote many books on this account.
Another reason why the old magnetizers avoided the modern ‘hypnotic’ state was that, next to the empirical use of Animal Magnetism in the cure of disease, their aim was to study the magnetic condition itself, about the nature and possibilities of which they felt themselves still very much in the dark; and the advent of the suggestible state made this study impossible.87
Magnetism wants to develop the faculties of man at their highest degree, and as they pertain only to the individual, any outer influence could hinder this development.


Differences in method between the mesmeric and magnetic schools
Mesmer: emphasis on attention to body sensations, in order to increase them
Experimental Magnetism:
not to examine one’s own sensations, but to "think of nothing"
How the operator must operate for successful magnetizing
We have put our attention on the feeling of the subject. But we must always remember that the work of animal magnetism is a mutual one.  This is our experience and is confirmed by all texts.
Both the operator and the subject will enter into a specific state. This is an important secret.
If we magnetize, we must always use our ‘inner sense’. 
“In fact, when a man magnetizes, he puts himself, by the exertion of his will, in a state different from his habitual one, he concentrates his attention upon a single object, he throws off and directs beyond himself the nervous or vital fluid, and this new manner of being renders him susceptible of new impressions. He first perceives a change operated in him self by the action in which he- is engaged. He then experiences by the reaction of him whom he magnetizes, various sensations which affect him more or less according to the degree of susceptibility with which he is endowed, and according to the degree of attention which he pays to recognize and distinguish them.
The change which occurs in us when we act magnetically, that is to say, when the passes we make are magnetic, and the feeling which persuades us we are in communication with him whom we wish to magnetize, are things which it is impossible to describe, but which they who are in the habit of magnetizing, and who have observed what passes in themselves, recognize with certainty. This disposition is composed of a determined intention, which banishes all distraction without our making any effort, of a lively interest which the patient inspires in us and which draws us towards him, and of a confidence in our power, which leaves us in no doubt as to our success in alleviating him. When experience has taught you that you are susceptible of this feeling, if you do not experience it. it is useless to continue” 88
Some steps in the procedure for the practicing magnetist
Even if the procedure is mostly based on our previous preparation and on exercises for accessing our inner intuition, we must always keep in mind that our client who is arriving to meet with us, must be helped to recover himself.
Having him wait in the waiting room for a while can help him to calm down. The client there will already find himself in the therapist’s space, and can begin calming himself.
Once you meet with him, you can speak a little to have him become receptive, even if speaking is not the most important part. Speaking too much can even be counterproductive, in that we would activate his rational functions too much.
The first passes must help him to get rid of exterior elements. Remember that even when the patient’s eyes are closed, passes and movements are valid only as a support for your silent thought and intention. Become present to yourself as you operate.



The search in old records for magnetism
Magnetism, which is totally natural, is something as old as the human being himself.

“This precious power, known especially to man, whose habits bring him most closely to Nature, is assuredly instinctive.” 
A. Didier

The search in old records for spontaneously occurring phenomena similar to those produced by the magnetizers, brought to light a great number of instances of every kind of phenomenon that occurred in Magnetism. Medical writers of all ages have described cases of spontaneous somnambulism, some of them presenting all the extraordinary characteristics of the induced89. Perfectly authenticated instances were found of complete insensibility to pain, vision in perfect darkness, seeing through opaque bodies or at a distance, transfer of one or more faculties to the pit of the stomach or tips of the fingers, understanding, or even speaking never learned languages, ‘thought-reading,’ visits in spirit to the abodes of the blessed, extraordinary capacities, accompanied in almost every case by total loss of memory when awakened. The annals of religious bodies also furnished abundant examples of similar abnormal states, which, if not so satisfactorily described as those in medical publications, were quite as confirmatory of the facts; and in many of these cases the confessor or exorcist was able to direct and control the phenomena precisely as the magnetizer does in the case of his subject. As to healing, accounts were discovered of a great number of persons who successfully used the laying on of hands, breathing and stroking, with the intention of curing, and with the belief in their power to do so, which, according to some magnetizers, contains the whole art of Magnetizing. 

Valentine Greatrakes
Most of these healers had only a local fame, being poor and illiterate, but some of them had national reputations, and the most frequently mentioned of them all is Greatrakes, who lived some four hundred and fifty years ago90, and who happened to be a man of fortune, and to have been known in fashionable circles. He was undoubtedly a wonderful operator, but it is probable that had he been a poor cobbler or gardener. In a similar way to some of those healers, his fame would not have gone beyond his own neighborhood. Greatrakes is a valuable instance in point, not only because he was a powerful healer, but because his cures were so well authenticated.91
For instance, the Bishop of Derry of that time (Dr. George Rust) wrote of Greatrakes:-
"I was three weeks together with him at my Lord Conway's, and saw him, I think, lay his hand upon a thousand persons; and really there is something more than ordinary in it; but I am convinced it is not something miraculous. I have seen pains strangely fly before his hands, till he hath chased them out of the body; dimness cleared, and deafness cured by his touch; twenty persons, at several times, in fits of falling sickness, were in two or three minutes brought to themselves, so as to tell where their pain was; and then he hath pursued it until he hath drawn it out of some extreme part: running sores of the King's Evil dried up, and kernels brought to a suppuration by his hand. Grievous sores of many months' date, in a few days healed. Obstructions and stoppages removed; cancerous knots in the breast dissolved, &c."
He attracted huge crowds in London and Robert Boyle witnessed many of his healing sessions. His supporters and detractors published several pamphlets and ballads concerning his healing. Greatrakes wrote to Lord Conway in May 1666: 'The Virtuosi have been daily with me... and God has been pleased to do wonderful things in their sight. Sir Heneage Finch says that I have made the greatest faction and disturbance between clergy and laymen that anyone has these 1000 years'.

The old magnetizers, frequently mention the chasing of the pains from one part of the body to another, drawing them finally out of the body by the extremities. When the pain left, the disease 'departed with it.92
It is interesting to look at the image and see that Greatrakes, as did all the magnetists, used BOTH hands to get results.
There are various reasons why using BOTH hands is so important in getting results in magnetic cures:
- By using both hands we awaken both our cerebral hemispheres. In this case we reach a higher state of awareness.
- An interesting quantum interpretation is that by using both hands and feeling a sensation between them we are performing a “measurement” on the person we are working on. A measurement is the act of putting an intention into what we do and therefore changing the reality.

We see that the system is still used in a similar way by today’s magnetizers:


Simple way of using the two hands technique to relieve an headache
This simple method dates from the time of Mesmer. It works with most headaches. Put one hand on the forehead and the other on the occiput. Be calm and wait a few moments. You will soon discover that the headache is relieved or completely removed.



The second Commission and how it revaluated mesmerism
“And so under the strangest new vesture, the old great truth begins again to be revealed, — that man is what we call a miraculous creature, with miraculous power over men” Carlyle93
Joseph Philippe François Deleuze

It is not everyday that we find a magnetist who is also literate. So when we do find them it is important to read their works in search for the answer to why and how in detail is it possible to heal people with the so -called ‘fluid’?
M. Deleuze was a man of a high morality and standing. He was very methodical. By performing many observations, he observed the similarities in results between the different methods for doing animal magnetism. He notes that the therapist works on two levels: physiological and psychical.
Having discovered the power of animal magnetism, he devoted himself chiefly to establishing the reality of the magnetic influence as a curative agent by records of cases and protracted arguments.
He also set up some principles:
GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. 
1. Man has the faculty of exercising over his fellowmen a salutary influence, in directing towards them by his will the vital principle.
2. The name of magnetism has been given to this faculty: it is an extension of the power which all living beings have, of acting upon those who are submitted to their will. 
3. We perceive this faculty only by the results; and we make no use of it, except as far as we will to use it.
4. The first condition of action, then, is to exercise the will. 
5. As we cannot comprehend how a body can act upon another at a distance, without there being something to establish a communication between them, we suppose … a substance  … This substance, which sustains life in us, we call the magnetic fluid. The nature of this fluid is unknown; even its existence has not been demonstrated; but everything occurs as if it did exist, and that warrants us in admitting it, while we are indicating the means of employing magnetism.
6. Man is composed of a body and a soul; and the influence he exerts, participates the properties of both. It follows that there are three actions in magnetism: first, physical; second, spiritual; third, mixed action. It will soon be seen how easy it is to distinguish the phenomena which belong to each.
7. If the will is necessary …, belief is necessary to induce one to make a firm and steady use of the faculties he possesses. Confidence in the power we possess, makes us act without effort and without distraction. …. 
8. In order that one individual may act upon another, there must exist between them a moral and physical sympathy; as there is between all the members of an animated body. Physical sympathy is established by means which we shall indicate: moral sympathy by the desire of doing good to one who desires to receive it; or by ideas and wishes which, occupying them both equally, forms between them a communication of sentiments. When this sympathy is well established between two individuals, we say, they are in communication.
9. Thus the first condition for magnetizing, is the will; the second is the confidence which the magnetizer has in his own powers; the third is benevolence, or the desire of doing good. One of these qualities may supply the others to a certain point; but to have energetic and salutary action at the same time, the three conditions must be united.
…
“I believe in an emanation from myself because magnetic results are produced without me touching the patient; ex nihilo 
nil.[...] I don't know whether it is material or spiritual, nor to which distance it be made to extend; but this I know, that is discharger and directed by my will, for when I cease to will, it ceases to act" Deleuze
The points stated by Deleuze are very empirical. In fact magnetism is empirical in its results. Only quantum theory can be accounted for the kind of results we get.
In magnetism results are the key.
Some methods of Deleuze
Deleuze simplified a little the way of doing of Mesmer, bringing attention to the right use of passes.
His methods are very soothing and relaxing.
In practicing them your gaze should be concentrated and use the ‘magnetic gaze’.94
See below the difference between the two types of gaze.

Hypnotic gaze

Magnetic gaze
Method 1 - sitting
This first method of Deleuze is very simple and effective. It works easily with most of people. In case you fear somebody doesn’t like to be looked at in the eyes make him look at a light.
1. Speak as little as you can. Exercise your gaze ahead of time, in order to be able to look at a person without needing to blink. The magnetizer and the subject are placed near and opposite to each other, so that their knees come in contact. Exercise meditation before performing, as while you will be looking at your subject you will enter mental emptiness…
2. Being in this situation, the operator takes the patient by both hands, and in such a way that their palms rest against his own.
3. He then recommends both parties to remain in this position until the warmth of their hands are about equal; that is to say, until the caloric is in equilibrium in the two organizations, and which is generally effected in a few minutes. During this interval, it is scarcely necessary to state that thought is busy, and that the will impresses its action on the vital fluid, which is transmitted by the operator, his fingers serving, for this purpose, as conductors while moving along the patient's arms.
4. Have your patient sit down in the easiest position; seat yourself before him if possible, in a seat which is a little more elevated, so that his knees may be between yours and your feet beside his. Ask him to be in an easy and passive state. 
5. After having brought yourself into a state of self-collectedness, take his thumbs between your two fingers, so that the inside of your thumbs may touch the inside of his; steadily fix your eyes upon him, and remain in this situation for a few minutes, until you perceive there is an equal degree of warmth between your thumbs and his. At this point you will move your hands to the right and left, waving them so that the interior surface is turned outwards, and you will then raise them as high as the head, place them upon the shoulders, leave them there for a minute and then draw them along the arm to the extremity of the fingers, touching gently. 
6. You will then commence the passes or downward movements of the hands; at a little distance from the body over the face and chest, to about as far as the pit of the stomach; sweeping them off a little before re-ascending; then descend slowly along the body as far as the knees, and if convenient to the ends of the feet—you may repeat the processes during the greater part of the sitting."— Deleuze. 
7. Note that the power of the look will add considerably to that of the touch and the will. The patient should keep his eyes open and full upon the operator, whose look should settle as firmly on his95. 

Some effects:
Most people will close their eyes after some moments.
The first test you can do is catalepsy (without speaking). 
Move the arms. Arms will remain cataleptic.
All these steps will have a very salutary influence on you subject. When we practice this method in our seminars, people always speak of a feeling of incredible peace and well-being .
Method 2
In case the patient cannot raise himself, take your station near his bed in the most convenient manner; take his thumbs, make several passes along the arms, and, if he can support himself upright, several along the back, then; not to fatigue yourself, use only one hand, placing it upon the stomach, and making longitudinal passes, at first slightly touching through the clothes, then at a distance. You can hold one hand fixed upon the knees or upon the feet, while the other is in motion. Finish by passes along the legs, and by transversal passes before the head, the breast, and the stomach, to scatter the superabundant fluid. When the communication is established, one can magnetize very well by placing himself at the foot of the patient's bed, and in front of him ; then directing at that distance both hands from the head to the feet, dashing them aside after each pass so as not to conduct the fluid to himself. Deleuze sometimes produced somnambulism by this process, without establishing the communication by touching.
Further proceedings
This is what I have to say about magnetism by the long pass, with which it is always proper to commence, and to which a person may confine himself until he has a reason for employing other processes.
Let us now consider the circumstances which point out particular processes.
When any one has a local pain, it is natural, after establishing a communication, to carry the magnetic action to the suffering part. It is not by passing the hands over the arms that we undertake to cure a sciatic ; it is not by putting the hand upon the stomach that we can dissipate a pain in the knee. Here are some principles to guide us.
The magnetic pass, if well done, draws along with it the pain.
For example, do you desire to cure a pain in the shoulder? Hold your hand upon the shoulder for some time, then descend, and after having quitted the ends of the fingers, recommence patiently the same process. Would you cure a pain in the stomach, place your hands several minutes upon the stomach and descend to the knees. 
It is often impossible to draw a pain far from the part where it is fixed; and you will succeed solely by driving it off progressively, by little and little. A pain upon the top of the head, will be lessened at first in the centre, by waving the hands downward and outward, on the right and left. At every pass a portion will be dislodged and carried off. It will take more or less time to dissipate it entirely.
Remember also the importance of INTENTION: The processes are nothing if they are not in unison with a determined intention. We may even say they are not the cause of the magnetic action; but it is indisputable that they are necessary for directing and concentrating, and that they ought to be varied according to the end one has in view.
Editor’s note. We could even interpret this result of the movement that draws away the pain as a ‘non verbal suggestion’. We speak to the body with the movement, instead of saying anything. It is one of the simplest methods to begin with.
This method can be reinforced with the gaze. In our experience it is only with the concomitant use of the gaze that the strongest results are achieved. In this case results are achieved in a few seconds. Without the gaze the methods requires more time.
For example, if one has the headache, owing to the tendency of the blood to the head, if the forehead be hot and the feet very cold, by making a few passes from the head to the feet, and others along the legs, the head is relieved and the feet become warm. If one has a pain in the shoulder, and the magnetizer makes passes from the shoulder to the end of the fingers, the pain will descend with the hand: it stops sometimes at the elbow, or at the wrist, and goes off by the hands, in which a slight perspiration is perceived: before it is entirely dissipated, a pain is sometimes felt in the lower part of the bowels. Magnetism seems to chase away and bear off with it what disturbs the equilibrium, and its action ceases when the equilibrium is restored. It is useless to search out the causes of these facts, it is sufficient that experience has established them, for us to conduct ourselves accordingly, when we have no reason to do otherwise.
Some examples of cures done with the method of Deleuze
The method of Deleuze is very simple.
1st. Oudin, an old soldier, … was paralyzed from the hips to the feet. He could walk only by the aid of crutches, and his legs trembled continually. He had most violent pains in the loins. He had been treated unsuccessfully at the Hotel-Dieu, afterwards in the fourth dispensary of the Philanthropic Society, when Deleuze directed his wife, (although she was very feeble,) to make slight frictions, almost without touching, from his hips to his feet. From the first day, the feet which were very cold and white, grew warm and red, as when sinapsisms are applied, and a few days after, the legs ceased to tremble. The pains in the reins were always very sharp, when the physicians apprised me that the disease originated in the spinal marrow. Deleuze then told the woman to apply frictions along the reins, drawing towards the legs, and very soon the pains were entirely removed. Oudin was not cured of his paralysis, but he suffered no more; he could even make use of his legs, and he was infinitely better.
2d. a woman was confined to her bed by violent pains, attended with fever. deleuze went to see her, and perceiving she was very sensitive to the action of magnetism, he pointed out to her husband how he ought to proceed in order to relieve her. The benefit, which he at first produced, imparted confidence to him, and in fifteen days his wife was cured. She then came to thank Deleuze. He asked her if she still suffered pain; she replied, " Only in the shoulder. When it was very severe, her husband caused it to pass away; but it returned, and he had not time every day to bestow care upon her." Deleuze then placed my hand upon her shoulder, and was much surprised to see her close her eyes; and, a few minutes after, fall into the state of somnambulism. he spoke to her ; and this is a summary of their conversation :
Are you asleep ?
Yes, sir.
Why do you sleep ? 
I do not know. 

Do you see what the matter is with you ? (After a little reflection,) Nothing is the matter with me but my pain in the shoulder. 
What must be done to relieve you? 
You are now doing what will cure me. 
In how long a time? 
Three days. 
If, when you are awakened, I tell you to come three or four days successively, will you do it? Yes, sir.
Deleuze then caused this woman to come four days, and since that time, she was no more ill.
The influence of Deleuze
In the academic field, after the appearance of the book “Histoire Critique du Magnetisme”, by Deleuze, many men of the highest scientific eminence felt compelled, by the cogency of the evidence in its favour, to examine the facts.
Furthermore, the opinions expressed in favour of animal magnetism by Ampere, Laplace, Cuvier, and other men of equal eminence, whose names ought to have silenced the voice of factious skepticism, induced many who were previously indifferent to investigate the subject. 



Magnetism after 1820
“Magnetism involves no profession of philosophical faith” Teste

The second commission, which revalued magnetism, was therefore mainly established in 1820 due to numerous examples of evidence, and even to the fact that other nations had embraced magnetism.
Even the enemies of Magnetism were starting to be ashamed of the report of the Royal Commissioners of 1784; it was in 1825 that Dr. Foissac proposed to the Academy of Medicine the examination of the whole subject again; and a small Committee of the members was appointed to look into the matter generally, and to report whether another formal examination by the Academy was advisable. I quote here the report of this preliminary Committee, because it shows very well the generally recognized status of Hypnotism at that time:-
“1.— The decision formed in 1784 by the Commissioners charged by the King to examine Animal Magnetism, should not, by any means, sanction you in dispensing with examining it de novo, because in science no decision whatever is absolute and irrevocable. 
“2.— Because the experiments on which this judgment was founded appear to have been conducted without the simultaneous and necessary assembling together of all the Commissioners, and 'also with moral dispositions which, according to the principles of the fact which they were appointed to examine, must cause their complete failure.
“3.— Magnetism, thus judged in 1784, differs entirely in theory, processes, and results from that which close, attentive, and strict observers, and which enlightened, indefatigable physicians have studied in later years.
“4.— It is to the honor of French medicine not to remain behind German physicians in the study of the phenomena, which the enlightened and impartial advocates of Magnetism declare to be produced by this new agent.
“5.— In considering Magnetism as a secret remedy, it is the duty of the Academy to study it, to subject it to trial, and finally, to remove its use and practice from persons estranged to the art, who abuse this means, and who make it an object of lucre and speculation.
“After all these considerations, your Commission is of the opinion that the section should adopt the proposition of Monsieur Foissac, and appoint a special Commission to direct their attention to the study and examination of Animal Magnetism."
(Signed by the five Commissioners.)

This was in October 1825, and in the following May, after much hesitation and debate, the second Commission was appointed (known as the Commission of the Academy of Medicine), consisting of eleven physicians, all men whose ability and good faith were above suspicion. Two of the eleven did not attend to their duties, and therefore did not sign the report, but the other nine signed it unanimously and they seem to have investigated Animal Magnetism very conscientiously and thoroughly, for it was not until June 1831, that they made their report, commonly known as “Husson's Report,” Dr. Husson having been appointed ‘Reporter’ of the Commission; and which report was translated into English by Colquhoun. The elaborate Report fully recognizes the reality of the phenomena produced by the magnetizers; but even its thirty "conclusions" are too lengthy to be quoted here. Suffice it to say that the Commissioners left theory strictly alone, and confined themselves to the verification of facts, among which were magnetism at a distance, clairvoyance, prevision, introvision, etc.; and that the last of their thirty conclusions ran thus:-
	“30. – The commission has not been able to verify, for want of opportunity, other powers which magnetizers have declared to exist in somnambulists; but it has collected and communicated facts sufficiently important to induce it to think that the Academy should encourage the researches on Animal Magnetism, as a very curious branch of psychology and natural history."

Commission
Response
Time frame of the analysis 
Experiments
Participation
First Commission (Bailly 1784)
It accepts the reality of curative occurrences it directly observes, but rejects Mesmer’s theory
A few months
All types, but not with regard to meta-psychic phenomena as well  
One member who is against the response of the commission (namely, Jussieu) invites the commission to carry out a more extensive analysis, because of the “tonic and salutary” effects which have been noticed 
Second Commission
(Husson)
It fully accepts the phenomena of magnetism
Six years 
All types
Unanimous decision
The reaction to the second commission
After two days of violent discussion, the report of the Commissioners was accepted by the Academy of Medicine, on condition that it should not be printed, although manuscript copies were allowed to be taken, whereas twenty thousand copies of the unfavourable report of the Royal commission of 1784 had been industriously circulated by the enemy. It might have been expected that so favorable a report as this later one would have created a ‘boom’ in Animal Magnetism; but, although it undoubtedly lifted a weight from the hearts of the friends of Magnetism, those friends had for years so industriously belittled the Royal Academy of Medicine- the same body which, they contemptuously declared, had prohibited the medicinal use of mercury, of Peruvian bark, and even of emetics, that they did not gain much now by boasting of its pronouncement in their favor. On the other hand, the enemies of Magnetism were spurred on by the Report to greater opposition. It takes some years for any important movement to grow into a practical issue; and it was only by 1830 that the efforts of Mesmer and his disciples were bearing fruit. The decade from 1830 to I840 was the Hood tide of Magnetism on the Continent of Europe; although in England Mesmerism (as it was generally called here) did not reach high water-mark until the following decade; for England lagged behind the rest of the world in Magnetism, as it later did on hypnotism. Until the publication of Colquhoun's “Isis Revelata," in 1833, Animal Magnetism was almost unknown there.
Two other Commissions are sometimes mentioned but they are without importance. In 1837 Dr. Berna applied to the Academy of Medicine to examine two clairvoyantes, and a committee was appointed for that purpose. As was to be expected, the clairvoyance of these women was quite a failure when tested by an utterly hostile Commission, and the Report was adverse. This Report was answered by both Dr. Berna and Dr. Husson, the Reporter of the Commission of 1831.They   declared the report to be false and malicious. In the following year  Dr. Pigaire called on the Medical Faculty of Montpellier to examine the clairvoyance of his daughter, whom he thought able to win the Burdin ‘prize’ of 3,000 francs for seeing what were the contents of a sealed box; but, the result was nihil, for the Committee of Investigation required conditions which Dr. Pigaire considered utterly unreasonable, and to be intended for insults to himself and to his daughter, and so he withdrew his clairvoyant.
There are two ways of testing clairvoyance: One is to hide the object; the other is to blindfold the clairvoyant. By shutting up an object in a box, it is very effectually concealed from the somnambule who is to be tested, and she experiences no emotional disturbance; and this is the way adopted by those who really wish to know the truth. The blindfolding of the clairvoyant, on the other hand, always excites the subject, and is certain to affect her clairvoyance disastrously; and that is the method always chosen by those who wish to prove that clairvoyance does not exist. In the case of Dr. Pigeaire's daughter, the Commissioners wanted to blindfold her elaborately, although she was required to see into a box. Sometimes the operation of blindfolding a clairvoyant was grotesque. First, pads of cotton wool were placed upon the eyes, and these were tightly bound round with a dark cloth, then the whole head was enveloped in a bag, and after that a sack was drawn down over the body. That anyone but a born idiot could expect clairvoyance to appear in those conditions is strange; still that kind of thing was, and still is, supposed by some people to be “scientific.”
It is strange now, and somewhat pathetic, to read the triumphant prognostications of the speedy and universal acceptance of Animal Magnetism in which the writers of that epoch indulged. Some countries then made a practical course of Animal Magnetism obligatory before taking a medical degree; some foreign universities had established courses of lectures on the subject and offered prizes for essays on it; in many cities magnetic institutions had been founded; and in 1838 it was considered a moderate estimate to say that one-fourth of the doctors of Paris either devoted themselves to mesmeric practice or had recourse to it occasionally. “Doctor's clairvoyant” had by that time become a regular profession, and hardly a town in France but boasted its magnetic physician. There was more than one worm in this fair fruit, however. Several causes conspired to counteract the efforts of the magnetizers, and frustrate their hopes; but these causes also took time to grow and gather enough strength to operate with effect; insomuch that while Hypnotism was apparently becoming triumphant, the causes that led to its eclipse in some academic circles were maturing.

More on Animal Magnetism in 1800
In France, between 1800 and 1820 animal magnetism  suffered an eclipse in academic circles. This was in part because of the consequences of the divisions between magnetizers, and also because of the attacks by academies with blind assessments against unorthodox healings.
We can see how similar attacks against all the so-called alternative medicine continue until the present day. Even acupuncture, which, like animal magnetism is a technique based on the concept of energy, though accepted in China has difficulty being accepted elsewhere.

As we read in a paper from the University of California:

“Blind assessment first emerged in history as a deterrent against unconventional healers.
Such healers were automatically treated with suspicion and distrust when their claims disregarded normative science. Understandably orthodox physicians suspected poor judgment and illusion, bias and over-enthusiasm, or even quackery and fraud. Blind assessment was a prominent feature in the medical tug-of-war with these “irregulars” and became the ultimate tool to test and demonstrate that these practitioners were “unscientific” and selling bogus goods. 
Unconventional healers sometimes responded by adopting the method as a touchstone for proving their own claims of efficacy. In its early development, blind assessment was not articulated into a systematic methodology, but was regularly dusted off and used to either combat potential quackery or gain access to scientific respectability. Especially in the initial phases, it tended to be used in an ad hoc manner to demarcate or proclaim legitimacy whenever the boundary conflict between conventional and deviant became especially contentious. The most important conflicts that utilized blind assessment were mesmerism and homeopathy.”96

The fact is that magnetism is still a mystery today.
It also works on animals, but cannot be measured.
It heals, and there are accounts of thousands of healings even today, but no scientific accepted Newtonian science can explain why it happens.
We can think of it in quantistic terms. In linear terms it is not possible to explain, even if there is evidence of people who have been healed and who have been observed by scientists who admit in an unbiased way that these such phenomena exist.   (Meheust). 
Regular science is still unable to explain what is called ‘human magnetism’. 
Magnetism is not alone. What is called ‘hypnosis’ is also something which is not very well defined. There are a host of different theories, ranging from the physiological (Hilgard) to the sociological (Wagstaff), but still neither receives general acceptance in the academic community. 
Differences of opinion on hypnosis and magnetism even today 
When we enter the ground of hypnosis and animal magnetism we enter a ground where we deal with the human being, and on everything about the human being there is: a host of theories.
The only thing we can say for sure, based on our experience and backed up by the many cases cited here, is that there are results.
We read: “When two hypnotherapists are together, you will most likely have two different opinions on hypnosis and trance phenomenon.”97
In recent years we have seen in Italy the discussions on the healings of magnetizers such as Andalini (1960) and Campanelli (2000). These persons worked with thousands of people (Andalini with about 10.000 people at a rate of 400 each year) with techniques similar to that of Dupotet. They met hundreds of physicians but no universal theory has yet been found. The only  measurable thing in this field are the healings.
The same doubts that still exist today were obviously present in the 1800s among magnetizers. In the first place, there was lack of agreement among magnetizers with regard to what may be called the fundamental principle of magnetic healing; for many magnetizers still thought that the crisis was the great curative agent, and that to abolish entirely the baquet, the chain, and the  ‘touching’ which brought that crisis on was an immense mistake. 
Moreover, the new school, which relied on benevolent intention and the exertion of the will, was in many minor points divided in opinion, not only with regard to the proper method of magnetizing, but also with reference to the effects which it was desirable to produce: for instance, some magnetizers said you should never allow your patient to remain in the deep sleep for more than half-an-hour; others told you to let him sleep for a week, if he would.
 The very desire of cohesion among magnetizers saved them from quarrelling over those points; but their differences were a source of weakness, nevertheless, and seemed to justify the assertion of the enemy, that the magnetizers were themselves ignorant of the subject they professed to teach.
As a matter of fact, cures were brought about by the systems both of Mesmer and De Puysegur, and every operator found his own method successful; but this, which ought to have been an additional reason for listening to the claims of the magnetizers, only intensified the prejudice against them; for it was not to reason, but to passion, that the enemy appealed, and they spared no effort to stir up hatred against both Magnetism and magnetizers. 
Three separate systems
After 1800 animal magnetism was split into three separate schools of magnetism: 
1st: the original school of Mesmer. This prevailed principally in Paris. Its doctrines were very similar to those of the Epicurean philosophy, as described in the poem of Lucretius. Its disciples believed in the existence of the universal fluid, and conducted the operation physically,—that is, by passing the hands immediately over, or at a short distance from, the body of the patient. 
2nd: the school of the Chevalier de Barbarin. This was founded at Lyons, and, although it had many partisans in France, prevailed principally in Sweden and Germany. Its principles remind us of the Platonic philosophy; its disciples maintained that the magnetic operation depended entirely upon a pure " effort of the soul," and was to be conducted only upon psychical principles. They were therefore termed spiritualists. 
3rd: Third and lastly, the school of the Marquis de Puysegur, founded at Strasburg, the disciples of which, professing to be guided only by observation, called themselves experimentalists. The characteristic feature of this school is that it combines the physical treatment of the school of Mesmer with the psychical treatment of that of Barbarin. 
Notwithstanding the magnetizers divided themselves into these different sects, they all maintained the same fundamental principles: they differed in theory, but each school agreed in producing the same practical results.
In fact the knowledge of the processes and of all the conditions necessary for the efficient use of magnetism, is independent of the opinions which serve to explain the phenomena.98



Slanders about magnetism
The Commissioners of 1784 had sent to the King a secret and supplementary report, which said that 'the practice of Magnetism would be attended with danger to the public morals. This hint was taken by the adversaries, who greedily seized upon the admission of the magnetizers themselves, that Magnetism in the hands of wicked men might be used for bad purposes-like many other things, excellent in themselves; and they did not hesitate to shamefully exaggerate the supposed danger, even affirming that Magnetism acted, in great part, by stirring up the sexual instincts of the patients-an explanation of the curative process which is not only intrinsically ludicrous, but shows complete ignorance of the subject; for one of the most marked and characteristic features of the magnetic state is the total suspension, for the time being, of those very  instincts.99 The accusation of sexual immorality is one of the easiest to bring, and one of the most difficult to disprove, as the early Christians found out to their cost -; it is the accusation that is the very first to occur to minds of a low order, and it is accepted without proof by the ignorant and depraved, who judge of others by themselves; and, although no reputable opponent laid stress on it, that accusation undoubtedly had some effect in scaring the general public away from Magnetism.
Another slander put forth about Magnetism was that it was productive of insanity. No case has ever been proved. 
It seems strange that this should have been believed, for it had been proved that one of the specific effects of Animal Magnetism was the cure of some forms of insanity and the alleviation of others; but the evil report was believed because in the hands of experimenting and skeptical doctors, ignorant of the subject, Magnetism was sometimes productive of grave accidents. 
In fact Mesmerism shares many elements with homeopathy. In homeopathy, many times physical symptoms get a little worse, but the mental state improves. Later the physical symptoms improve.
In the same way, it is well-known to magnetizers that an aggravation of the symptoms of a disease is frequently a first effect of Magnetism,100 and the occurrence of this aggravation is regarded by experts as a ‘crisis’ prognostic of cure; but it could occasionally occur that inexperienced persons who were experimenting were frightened by unexpected incidents of that kind, and allowed other people to interfere, the consequence being ‘cross-magnetism,’ resulting, perhaps, in a series of fits, perhaps in delirium, or in coma that lasted for hours, or even days. 
Of course, these unfortunate accidents were made the most of by the enemies of Magnetism (who themselves produced most of them); and it frequently happened that while the occurrence itself was trumpeted everywhere, its sequel was not reported at all; so that, although the sufferers invariably recovered after a short time, it was currently believed that they had become permanently insane, or were dead. When anything from which much is expected disappoints the hopes of its friends, it is taken for granted by the world that its intrinsic demerits caused its failure; and it soon becomes a “chose juge,” and is dismissed to the limbo of forgotten things. For that reason it is important to understand the whole conjunction of adverse circumstances that led to the virtual suppression for the time being of the Mesmerisers; for it will then be perceived that, however excellent the magnetic treatment of disease may be, such a combination of causes could not but create an opposition to Animal Magnetism, which nothing short of a miracle would have enabled it to overcome.
Among the hindrances to the progress of Magnetism, Deleuze reckoned the exaggerations of the magnetizers, which caused the facts to be scouted without examination, as utterly impossible, and caused the name of Mesmer to be coupled with that of Cagliostro, whom the public in general looked on as a charlatan. 
Cagliostro and his differences with Mesmer
Deleuze takes trouble to point out how different the behaviour of Mesmer was from that of the mystery-loving, Italian wonder- worker. 

Cagliostro in any case posed as a unique personality, possessed of powers that were inexplicable and incommunicable; Mesmer instead declared that other people possessed the same powers that he exercised; His great wish was to explain his system to those competent to pronounce on it, and to teach his procedures to those who were worthy and willing to learn them; and even their enemies gave the magnetizers credit for openness and fairness, acknowledging that their cry was always “Come and see; go and try.” 
Nevertheless, Magnetism was mixed up with things with which it had no necessary connection, and saddled with their pretended sins.
For truth’s sake it is necessary to state that even Cagliostro performed powerful healings, and that critics throughout the history of magnetism very rarely want to deal with what really matters (the healings) but love to dwell more on ‘why’ something happens instead on ‘what’ in fact happens. 

Phrenology and Magnetism

A conspicuous instance that also brought attention away from truthfully examining magnetism individually, was the incorporating into Magnetism of the struggling "science," Phrenology, which was effected in England chiefly under the auspices of Drs. Elliotson and Engledue. Not only did the surprising claims made for Phreno-magnetism prejudice a sector of the public against Magnetism itself, but they were a cause of division among magnetizers, many of whom looked upon Phrenology as a pseudo-science. The chief reason for the prejudice against Phrenology at that time was that it was regarded as "atheistic," a belief in it being thought by many people to lead infallibly to materialism. The phrenologists contended that men always act according to their own natural dispositions, and to their heredity and their environment, and this seemed to take away moral responsibility. Dr. Engledue, for example, in a paper read at a meeting of the Phrenological Association in July, 1843, said of McNaughton, a recently hanged murderer, "his actions, like the actions of all animated beings, were necessarily the result of his organic constitution and the circumstances surrounding him at a given period," a theory which the public regarded as an encouragement to crime, and a danger to society; and the fact that Drs. Elliotson and Engledue were known to be pronounced materialists, did not tend to weaken that idea. Not only did Phreno-magnetism create a side issue, to the detriment of Magnetism, but the alliance also injured Phrenology. 

Whether Gall himself was really a materialist or not, he sought to establish Phrenology upon a basis of pure observation, as completely independent of corroboration from adventitious sources such as Animal Magnetism, as it was free from bias through religious or metaphysical theory. Throughout many years, with infinite labour, Gall collected thousands of instance's of the simultaneous existence of an ‘organ’ and a faculty, in excess, or in deficiency; and those correspondences of faculty and brain substance were the data on which he relied; but when Magnetism became decadent, Phrenology suffered with it since the two things had become linked together in the public mind; for the world had forgotten that, whatever his followers and successors may have done, Gall himself, the great anatomist of the brain, had used only the strictest scientific method in locating the faculties in its different parts. 

Gall
Of course, when Phreno-magnetism came gradually to be first doubted, and then disbelieved by many magnetizers who had at first accepted it, Magnetism itself was thought by the public to have been in a great measure "disproved," and this, too, gave it a decided set-back.
The baron of Reichenbach and the two magnetic poles

Another matter with which Animal Magnetism became mixed up was Reichenbach's ‘Odyle’ or ‘Od force.’ The magnetizers thought that they had found a powerful ally in Reichenbach; but that very fact put the men of science against Reichenbach's theories, and they refused to verify his facts; or, rather, they made a burlesque pretence of trying to do so. 
Born in Stuttgart (1788), Karl von Reichenbach was a laudable personage. His father, the Court Librarian, was able to supply Karl with a rich reserve of arcane treasures. Books of a most wonderful kind flooded his young life with the stimulating and refreshing visions of a hundred forgotten naturalists. 
His scientific reputation was worldwide. Known for his humility and deep sensitivity, the enormous scientific contributions made by him to European industry and research are legendary. Reichenbach discovered paraffin in 1830. The Baron engaged the first exacting geological survey of Moravia.101

Schloss Koblenz where Reichenbach lived

For thirty years Baron Reichenbach had experimented with sixty or seventy extreme sensitives; and yet nearly everybody thought he was justified in pooh-poohing Reichenbach's labours and ideas, because, forsooth, he himself did not meet with the same results during half-an-hour’s trial with two or three people taken at random.102

The Baron instead was well aware that suggestive questions could falsify all of his accurate data. Truth, after all, was what he sought. Each of his numerous sensitives corroborated their experiences without provocations. He later formally reported the clear distinctions between actual sensitivity and mere suggestion, a daring but necessary disclosure. The Baron decided to utilize sensitives from every social class and nationality where possible.103
His most important book was written in 1846104.
 John Ashburner M.D. performed the herculean task of translating the original book from German into English in 1855 and arranged to have it published by Partridge & Britain, of the Shekimah and Spiritual Telegraph, in Great Britain the following year.

As Ormond Mac Gill reports: “Experiments revealed that the North Pole of a magnet placed over an afflicted part of the patient has a very different effect from that of the South Pole. In testing, he noted that the negative position of the magnet tended to control inflammation in human joints and aided in more rapid healing of injuries while exerting an antibiotic effect on bacteria and a sedating effect on nerves…Recent studies reported by dr. Robert R. Holcomb at Vanderbilt University claim that four magnets together arranged alternating as positive and negative poles can stop the pain at a molecular level”105.
But the work of Baron of Reichenbach was not only with physical magnets.
His theory was even of a natural ‘human magnetism’ that was in some way ‘polarized’.   
It is to note that the work of the baron of Reichenbach was later developed by the Durville brothers at the beginning of the 1900s.

Schema of human body polarities

Furthermore, Reichenbach’s theory of positive and negative od has a very high similarity both with older conceptions dating back to the antiquity of positive and negative energy (fire and water), and with oriental techniques.
In Indian philosophy for example the two energies represented by ida and pingala create a central energy when they merge. 
For the hypnotherapist interested in Indian techniques, Reichenbach is a very interesting ‘bridge’ (and even more so is the work of the Durville brothers)  
Polarities can have an interesting interpretation even from a quantistic point of view.
Kieser - Tellurism and grounding in the earth for successful healing

A very interesting idea of magnetism is the concept of being grounded. This concept was named ‘Tellurism’ by dr. Kieser106 but his ideas were not well understood by many of his contemporaries.
What he tells us is instead very interesting because in experiments with animals in order to perform healing it is very important to “feel one with the ground”107 . 

We can think that dr. Kieser stood with something very important which is undervalued in most modern healing technologies. Our experience instead shows that performing even standard hypnotherapy when grounded will enhance and accelerate your results. 
I shall quote Kieser in his own words: "Animal magnetic influence or animal magnetism upon our earth is the (intentionally caused) reciprocal action of two living organisms upon each other, in which not the solar but the telluric force preponderates and decides" (Vol. I, p. 7).

"The activity which brings about the magnetic rapport is the animal magnetic force. It is, therefore, the living activity of the earth or its representative, the telluric force itself, which emanates in different forms during the reciprocal action between two things from the magnetizer upon the somnambulist. It is not anything material, but the force or spirit of the earth which, in the different forms of the magnetizer, either as metallic, vegetable, animal or human spirit, is always the expression of the telluric spirit" (Vol. I, p. 18). "As the telluric force is the most universal force of the earth, and no earthly stuff can escape the power of its influence, it follows that all earthly bodies must be conductors of the telluric force" (Vol. I, p. 318). "The telluric force is, therefore, not an electric or galvanic force, nor is it identical with the mineral magnetic force, neither is it merely the psychic force of man, nor his nervous activity; it is not the all-flood of Mesmer, nor general vital power, nor is it identical with light, heat or chemism, or a dead, fine exhalation of an animal body, nor even the pure psychic force of spirits" (Vol. I, pp. 338-344); but, as said before, the most universal force of the earth, the living activity of the earth, which in the different forms of the magnetizer, either as metallic, vegetable, animal, or as human spirit, is always the expression of the telluric spirit" (Vol. I, p. 18). 
Kieser was able to heal using these concepts that are his own way of thinking.
The means of magnetizing were: The will, the look and various manipulations with the hands and fingers of the magnetizer and the unmagnetized baquet, all of which Dr. Kieser describes at full length from page 347-407 in Vol. I.
Kieser credits the outline of this theory to the Schellingian Naturphilosoph Nees von Esenbeck.

Kieser gives also ‘neurogamy’ as one of the names of animal magnetism. It is the ‘marriage of the nerves’, that is to say the sensory worlds of the magnetizer and the magnetisee come together.108
This is an interesting concept and put attention on the strict contact between magnetizer and magetisee, when, during the magnetic induction, they entangle each other and higher phenomena are possible.
Be very earthed (grounded) when you do magnetism or even standard hypnotherapy. You will enhance your results.  
An exemple of Kieser’s Tellurism
The operation is generally performed with the hands only, which are moved, according to the rules of tellurism, in particular directions, from the head to the extremities, resting now and then on the different plexus, or, in case of local disease, on the affected part. The manipulations are of two kinds, positive and negative—exciting and calming; some more or less so.

The tellurist is directed therein by the nature of the disease, and by the symptoms, which manifest themselves in many forms. Many of these movements are founded upon physiological principles; others have been discovered by somnambulists: and a few are merely traditional. Even here, as in every other science, all depends on the talents, genius, good-will, perseverance, presence of mind, and discrimination of the professor.

It is sometimes necessary to strengthen or to modify the manipulations with the aid of rooms properly fitted up with music, perfumes, flowers, plants, telluric baths, &c.

The treatment itself is not alarming, and possesses nothing contrary to decency. If the patient is confined, the manipulation is made over the bed-clothes, otherwise he may be seated in his usual dress. 

Tellurism, being founded on Nature, does not proscribe the use of medicine altogether; it proscribes only its abuses, and it demands from its patients to abstain from allowing any anti-telluric doctor to interfere with the cure.

In regard to the time in which the treatment is to be left off, the tellurist has a scientific criterion, which in most cases is infallible, namely, the ceasing of the visible effects of the treatment. It is mainly a peculiarity of tellurism, that, after the cure is finished, the effects produced upon the patient during the cure, such as drowsiness, sleep, convulsive movements of the eyelids, disappear gradually in geometrical progression, as soon as the cure is finished
Rutter, Ashburner and Theodore Leger
An instance of distraction from the main issue was furnished by Rutter's ‘Magnetiscope,’ a little instrument from which the most wonderful results were expected, and which was taken up warmly by Dr. Ashburner, Dr. Theodore Leger (called the ‘Psycho-dunamist,’)    and some other magnetizers. This instrument was a development of the very old fortune-telling device of a ring suspended by a thread which is held in the hand, the ring answering questions by tapping on the side of a tumbler, inside of which it hangs. In Rutter's instrument, the pendant hangs from a fixed support, and any unconscious propulsion of it by the operator is thus prevented. Rutter devoted much time to experimenting with this little machine, a bob or plummet and card graduated with concentric circles replacing the ring and tumbler; and he drew up elaborate tables, showing the different movements of the suspended bob when the operator held different substances in one hand, and placed the other on the machine. 
Suffice it to say that the inventor thought that his Magnetiscope would solve most of the problems of chemistry, of electricity, and of our vital mechanism. But after a time it was found that the apparatus gave different results with different people; so it dropped out of sight and out – of memory, although its curious behaviour was never satisfactorily explained.
Homoeopathy and Magnetism
Magnetism, in proposing a new and more natural system of healing, found and finds itself naturally in alliance with other novel systems for treating diseases, in as much as those other systems are and were also fighting against the tyranny of Official Medicine. 

Foremost among these was Homoeopathy. The magnetizers were trying to supplant the old mode of treatment by Magnetism, and the homoeopathists were endeavoring to do the very same thing by means of Homoeopathy; and although Hahnemann himself had belief in Magnetism, since it employed a means that seemed almost as little ‘material’ as his ‘infinitesimal doses,’ still the ‘globule’ and the ‘pass’ were rivals for public favour, and both of them aimed at universal sovereignty. 
Homoeopathy and Magnetism, however, expended very little ammunition on each other, and between them they gave orthodox Medicine so severe a shaking that it could no longer uphold its absolute authority, even by calling in the help of the law; and a system of ‘go as you please’ soon sprang up in the cure of disease, which has become today a veritable jubilee of patent medicines and curative fads of all kinds-some of the most noxious of these fads, be it said, being innovations by ‘regular’ practitioners; that the subcutaneous injection of opiates, for instance, has now become a social vice, is wholly due to the demoralizing influence of the doctor.109

Samuel Hanemann
Samuel Hanemann, the father of homeopathy, in his “Organon”110 spoke in this way about the usefulness of Animal Magnetism:
I consider it necessary in this place to allude to animal magnetism or mesmerism (called so after Mesmer, its discoverer), differing in its nature from all other curative agents. This remedial power, the existence of which is often denied, is imparted to the patient by the touch of a well-disposed person, exercising the full strength of his will. It acts in part homeopathically, by exciting symptoms similar to those of the disease to be cured, and is applied for this purpose by means of a single pass or stroke of the hands held flatwise over the body, and carried, during moderate exertion of the will, from the crown to the tips of the toes ;
[1] this process is efficacious in uterine haemorrhages, even when death is imminent. The application of mesmerism also serves to distribute the vital force equally through the organism, when it is abnormally active in some parts, and deficient in others; e. g., in cases of rush of blood to the head, and sleepless, anxious restlessness of debilitated persons, etc., where it should also be applied by means of a single, but more powerful pass of the hands. It is also capable of imparting vital power, and of supplying deficiency of the latter directly to a single debilitated part, or to the entire organism. This object is not to be reached with the same degree of safety and certainty by any power, except by that of mesmerism, which obviates the disturbances arising from other kinds of medical treatment. An effect of this kind is obtained in single parts of the body, by applying the hands or tips of the fingers, and by directing a strong effort of good will upon the part suffering from inveterate debility, where an internal chronic evil has established its local symptoms. Cases of this kind are, e, g., chronic ulcers, amaurosis, paralysis of single limbs, etc.
 [2] Many sudden and apparent cures, performed in all ages by mesmerists endowed with great natural power, belong to this category. But the most remarkable instances of the communication of human power were witnessed in the resuscitation of persons who, after having lain in a state of apparent death for a long time, were acted upon by the powerful will of a well-disposed man in the prime of life and vigor. 
[3] History records several undoubted instances of this kind. These methods of applying mesmeric power, depend upon an influx of vital force from one body into another; it is, therefore, called positive mesmerism. 
[4] But there is another manner of applying it, which produces a contrary effect to the former, and is, therefore, known as negative mesmerism. Of this kind, are the mesmeric strokes employed in awakening persons from a state of somnambulism, as well as all those manipulations known as "calming" and "ventilating." The safest and simplest means of discharging the excess of vital power accumulated in some portion of a vigorous organism, consist in the application of negative mesmerism by means of the right hand with its extended palm, held parallel to and about an inch from the body, and carried by a rapid motion from the crown of the head to the tips of the toes. 
[5] The more rapidly this motion is made, so much the more effective will be the discharge of vital force. In a case of apparent death, for instance, occurring in a female previously healthy, 
[6] whose menses were suddenly arrested at their commencement, by some violent emotional disturbance, the excess of vital force, probably accumulated in the precordial region, is discharged and restored to its equilibrium throughout the organism, by means of a rapid negative stroke of the hand, which will be followed by immediate resuscitation. 
[7] A gentle and less rapid negative movement of the hand will also allay the great agitation, and anxious sleeplessness occasioned in very excitable persons, by a positive pass too powerfully applied.
Clairvoyancy and  Mesmerism

As far back as 1808, Dr. Petetin published in Paris a book called "Electricite Animale," of which the well-known later writer on the same subject, Dr. Esdaile, says: "Dr. Petetin's cases alone are sufficient to establish the reality of natural clairvoyance." Plentiful testimony will be found in this book concerning the powers of mesmeric subjects of a certain kind to read the contents of closed letters and books, and to exercise many other faculties of perception quite independently of the ordinary sense. 
But clairvoyance was also being associated in the public mind with what was popularly regarded as charlatanism.
A discredit which seemed to be justified in a measure, for the domain of Magnetism was soon invaded by quacks and pseudo-clairvoyants, neither the public nor the great majority of doctors being able to tell true Magnetism from false. Teste mentions a typical case of this kind to which he was called in. The patient, he says, had previously been treated "by one of those somnambulists who live privately on the credulity of fools, or of hopeless invalids, and who sometimes make us blush at being magnetizers;" "a more strange, complicated, and barbarous treatment could not be devised," he thinks; and no wonder, for that treatment consisted of "live pigeons with their throats cut" applied to the feet; plasters all over the body, and "drugs, tisans, mixtures such as no apothecary ever made up." This reads much more like the orthodox treatment of that day than like Animal Magnetism; but it was by such outrages on common sense that Magnetism was often judged without really enquiring about its real power.
In spite of all, there were many serious clairvoyants. Among them were Alexis Didier and Alphonse Didier. Recently in France a book has been published on the former, who was capable of astounding results and powerful cures111.
The power of healing and the power of finding healing remedies
We must in any case make a distinction between different cases. As the name ‘clairvoyancy’ in the ancient books means both a hidden faculty of previewing the future, as well as the capability of using intuition. 
A prominent feature in Magnetism is the power which clairvoyants are asserted to possess of foreseeing the course of a disease in themselves; and this power the older School attributed to instinct, which put the subject in rapport with Nature, while the later School thought it came from the opening of the inner powers of vision; but all Schools agreed in declaring that the phenomenon was a wholly natural one. 
In addition, even modern science has ascertained that many animals have the capability of finding their healing remedies112. It therefore has validated these affirmations that instinct can know the remedies to illnesses. 
Here is what a writer (baron Dupotet) says: “In other cases, however, the phenomena of clairvoyance and lucidity supervene, and the patients prescribe, not only for themselves, but for others, the treatment which should be adopted; and, as I have already advised, the injunctions given in this state should be scrupulously obeyed. I now proceed to adduce, from the mass of evidence which lies before me, a few cases which will sufficiently illustrate the curative effects of animal magnetism; I subjoin them without reference to any nosological arrangements.”113

A case of successful magnetism (dr. Loewe)
Caroline Baudoin, twenty years of age, of a lymphatic temperament, had spent her childhood in Geneva, where the badness of her constitution fully developed itself, aggravated perhaps by the influence of the climate, or the use of unwholesome food. Her whole glandular system became diseased; her throat, breasts, and arm-pits exhibited tumours of a decidedly scrofulous nature, many of which suppurated, and discharged an abundance of purulent matter. The disease had been treated by all the most approved means; several issues had been inserted, but other tumours gathered and burst. One in particular, in the left arm, had burrowed down to the bone, and spread through the adjacent muscles, so as to render necessary the amputation of the arm. This having been resolved, the operation was performed at the Hospital St.-Louis, with the consent of the patient, who, fatigued with the pain occasioned by this festering limb, looked upon its removal as a blessing. It was attended with complete success; the wound, however, took sometime in healing; and the patient afterwards left the hospital, wherein she had been under treatment for several months. But her system, infected as it was with scrofulous matter, gave her no rest. Another wound opened on her breast, and resisted every medical treatment; she was in this state when I first knew her; a poor girl, doomed to great suffering, and apparently to a premature death. Moved by the recital of her sufferings, I resolved upon magnetizing her, rather from an instinctive feeling that I might relieve her, than from any conviction that I could do her good, for I scarcely considered it possible to cure so inveterate a disease. In the course of three minutes magnetization, she fell asleep, and began by telling me that, had she known me seven months sooner, she would not have lost her arm. It was only three months since she had been operated upon. She pointed out the means of healing the wounds on the arm and breast, and on these being applied they proved completely successful. The most important thing, however, remained to be effected, which was to change her constitution, or at least to modify it in such a manner as to prevent a recurrence of the previous eruptions. Magnetism had produced a sufficient, degree of lucidity to allow of her giving advice to other patients, but hitherto not enough to describe the means of curing herself. One day, as she was prescribing for a patient whose recovery she was anxious to bring about, she interrupted the consultation, and told me that on the 24th of August, at nine in the evening, she should fall into a state of profound sleep, which would last for thirty hours; that this sleep would be very calm, if during the two preceding days she were not annoyed by anything; but otherwise she should be much agitated; and that, by an unaccountable feeling, she should endeavour to eat her own flesh. She therefore desired that precautions might be taken to check this fatal propensity, and requested that she might be incessantly watched. She declared further, that during this crisis of thirty hours, she would eat absolutely nothing; and that the scrofulous matter would be carried out of her system. She also said, that during her sleep a bruissement would be heard at the epigastrium, caused by the flow of scrofulous humours. She then predicted her perfect recovery. This declaration was made on the 14th of July, 1833. I made her repeat it on the 21st of the same month, in the presence of fifteen persons, who drew up and signed a report to this effect, having previously taken care to ascertain her scrofulous state. In the intervening period many persons took cognizance of the declaration, and promised, if her prediction were fulfilled, to attest so remarkable a case. On the 24th of August, at eight in the evening, it was arranged that several persons should assemble in the house of the patient, at the Petit-Carreau; and I enjoined her attendants to put her to bed half-an-hour before the accession of her crisis, in order to prevent her being annoyed. All this was punctually done. At nine o'clock precisely, a number of visitors had congregated. On arriving, we were informed that the crisis had declared itself a few minutes sooner than she had predicted, and that it was fully developed. On entering the room we saw the unfortunate girl with her face swelled, her tongue protruding out of her mouth, nearly, to all appearance, cut in two by her teeth, her limbs stiffened, and her jaws so firmly locked that it was impossible to open them. After having magnetized the masseter muscles so as to remove the stiffness of the jaws, I caused the tongue to be drawn in, which was already very much discoloured, and fortunately had only been bitten very slightly. No one had yet perceived that one of her fingers had not only been bitten, but that there was a loss of substance, the piece wanting having been swallowed by her during her previous paroxysm. The wound was now dressed, out of which no blood, but a great quantity of red lymph issued. As the violence of this crisis continued, I thought it proper to remain with her during the ensuing thirty hours. I was perfectly right in having taken this resolution, for she struggled long with extraordinary violence, and attempted to put her hand into her mouth to bite it again, but she had been so bound down that she could only get at the sheets, a piece of which she succeeded in tearing off. The somnambulic state at length terminated; her prediction was fulfilled; and she was, to the satisfaction of all the parties interested, from that day cured. 
Another case of dr. Loewe
A woman of forty years of age, worn out by long sufferings, and unable to stir without crutches, resolved on having recourse to animal magnetism, and was conveyed for that purpose to Paris, in a sedanchair. She was two days travelling a distance of thirty-six miles. Several fainting fits came on during this journey. On being magnetized upon her arrival, she fell into somnambulism, but her sleep did not present any lucidity. The magnetic effects, however, produced by the magnetizer were such that he at once declared that, in a few days, the patient would walk without crutches. He therefore invited her to a ball, which he intended giving in his house on a certain day. The doubts expressed by the patient and her friends did not in the least disconcert him, but, on the contrary, he sent his invitations to a great many people, that they might go and convince themselves, and acknowledge the truth of his assertion, and the triumph of magnetism. In the meantime the patient was magnetized every morning, and at each sitting a decided improvement was observed. On the eleventh day she began to attempt a few steps, being supported by the arms, and she left off using crutches. On the seventeenth, she came to the soiree of the magnetizer, ascended the stairs unassisted, walked about the room, and remained there until one o'clock in the morning, when she retired to her own house without having felt any more fatigue than would have been the case with a person in good health.
Other examples of magnetic cures
Magnetic cures can obviously be also done directly. And it is not only in nervous diseases that animal magnetism is so valuable a therapeutical agent; in derangements of the vascular system, in the early stages of inflammation, and on the accession of fevers, it is equally useful. In cases of general debility, it produces also a remarkably invigorating effect on the system. It ought, however, to be observed that the application of animal magnetism in the treatment of disease produces beneficial effects, albeit the more remarkable physical and psychical magnetic phenomena be not developed. The good, therefore, which is to be derived is not to be estimated by the ostensible magnetic effects which are induced.
We will now show some examples cited by dr. Loewe. "In some instances," says Loewe, " no other striking phenomena takes place, than merely a gradual change of the unhealthy to the healthy state, according to the repetition of the application. In others the magnetized person falls asleep, and is recovered without being brought to a higher degree of magnetical phenomena. The four following cases have come under my own observation:
—At Groningen, a girl, about nineteen years of age, was suffering under hysterical spasms, which sometimes continued for forty-eight hours: after being magnetized half an hour a day for three weeks, the patient recovered, and no other phenomena was effected. no longer than eight days; but no other phenomena was observed.
"A gentleman, thirty-five years of age, had laboured for many years under a chronic disease, which sometimes presented itself in the form of head-ache, particularly on one side of the head, and sometimes as an hypochondriac affection: after having made use of all the medicines usual in such diseases without effect, he was magnetized. For three weeks, during which time the animal magnetism was daily repeated, there was no remarkable difference in his case, but in the fourth week the symptoms of the first degree of magnetism presented themselves, and he was brought to the state of sleeping; and after the daily repetition of animal magnetism during the space of eight weeks, he recovered without any other phenomenon taking place."114
"A lady residing in London, after a violent attack of fever, under which she was suffering in the months of December and January last, was affected by convulsions of every kind, but mostly by fainting, which often lasted two hours, and it was difficult to bring her to herself. I was one day present when this fainting was coming on, and, in presence of her sister and brother-in-law, I tried to make application of animal magnetism: I had scarcely begun to operate, when she quickly recovered from the fainting, as though she had been awakened by fright, and from that moment she gradually recovered, with the assistance of medicaments usual in such cases, and is now in perfect health.
"A boy in Groningen, fourteen years of age, was suffering under tertian ague about eight weeks: after having given him all medicaments usual in this case, without effect, he was recovered by applying animal magnetism”
Animal magnetism seen as a diabolical agent
Because Animal Magnetism was very effective, some of its  enemies however, persisted in regarding this power as supernatural, and believed it to be evoked, either consciously or unconsciously, by the magnetizer; and in either case this exercise of supernatural power they declared to be exceedingly wrong, whether the miraculous help came from God or from the Devil. 
Father Gassner settled the question to his own satisfaction, by handing over to the doctors the diseases which he did not recognize as the work of the Devil; his theory being that Nature inflicts some diseases which are curable by natural means, and that the balance must be put to the credit of the Devil. The old Pagan idea was that the gods sent diseases as a punishment, or token of their displeasure; the Ancients had no official Devil,, a professional opponent of the gods; so they believed that the gods who inflicted the disease removed it again when they were placated. But when Christianity triumphed over Paganism, the Church pronounced the Heathen Gods to be Devils. It did not believe, nor does it even now unreservedly believe, that Jupiter, Mercury, Venus, or Diana have no real existence. Not only the Early Fathers, but all, theologians down to late in - the Middle Ages, thought that those and other Pagan gods continued to have not only a real existence, but terrible powers over human beings who gave them a chance to get at them by straying from the orthodox fold. These old gods could still cure disease it was believed; and did so at the hands of those who became their servants; so the cures made in their names were cures wrought by the Devil, and it was taken for granted by the Church that all miraculous cures not due to God were the Devil's work; and the Church actually taught the extraordinary doctrine that God sometimes inflicts disease upon mankind and the Devil cures them! But hypnotic cures occurred in the Church as a natural result of faith in God's goodness, and it was necessary to recognize them as sometimes legitimate. There was, however, no mark in the cures themselves to distinguish the divine from the diabolic; so the religious profession of the operator was taken to be the criterion. The hypnotic cures operated by the clergy were declared to be performed" by the help of God; the cures effected. by a layman, especially by a heretic, were pronounced to be due to Satan. The methods of cure and of exorcism used by the Church are declared by Voetius in his "De Exorcismo" to have been the same as those of the Heathen, names only being changed. And just as the works of Christian writers are full of miraculous cures by saints, when alive and when dead, so also those of the Heathen authors abound in stories of cures effected by the use of charms and spells which were believed to have received their efficacy from the gods-cures such as those mentioned by Matthiolus and Fermilius; snake bites rendered harmless by charms pronounced even without seeing the sufferer, and fevers cured by merely muttering certain words.
The consequence to the magnetizers of that way of regarding the action of unknown and invisible causes of disease was a very telling slander, but one which it is difficult for us now to take seriously, namely, that magnetic cures were accomplished by the aid of the Devil. To deny this was declared to be the same thing as asserting that they were done with the assistance of God; and that was affirmed to be equivalent to saying that Christ's miraculous healing was nothing but Animal Magnetism; which, of course, was looked on as rank blasphemy. Having presented the friends of Magnetism with this dilemma, their enemies proceeded to impale them on one of its horns by declaring that the magnetizers were condemned out of their own mouths, for they constantly quoted the doings of the sorcerers and the witches in corroboration of their own phenomena. And, besides, did not everybody know that "The Devil is an expert physician"? Did not St. Chrysostom tell us that "It were better for a man to remain sick all his days, yea, he had better die, than to go to the Devil for health"? Did not old Burton, in his "Anatomy of Melancholy," say that in his time many cures were done in every village by the sorcerers, "but it were better to die than to be so cured"? Did not Sennett, a physician of the sixteenth century, who accused Paracelsus of commerce with the Devil, tell his professional brethren that “It is better for them to acquiesce with resignation in the death of their parents, than to save their lives by such impious means as the use of medicines recommended by Paracelsus" and the Devil?
The clergy could not well display less piety than the doctors; so they, too, raised the cry of "Satanic agency," and warned their Bocks against Magnetism;	 although some Protestant clergymen were among its ardent advocates and defenders against this and other charges. The Rev. George Sandby, for instance, devotes a considerable portion of his excellent treatise on Mesmerism to proving that the cures operated by the magnetizers are not Satanic, and that the miraculous healing of Christ was not magnetic. It has always been a difficult thing for pious people to distinguish between the anger of God and the claw of the Devil in the causing or curing of disease; and the Church of Rome was circumspect enough to refuse to issue a general Anathema against Animal Magnetism. Applications were made to Rome by puzzled ecclesiastics in Belgium, Piedmont, and Switzerland, but it was not until I843 that Cardinal Castracane declared officially to the Archbishop of Rheims that Rome would only pronounce on particular cases; which ruling did not conflict with the opinion it had already expressed that Animal Magnetism in itself, as a natural phenomenon, was harmless, so long as it was in no way mixed up with Satanic agency. The following is the general description of the facts that elicited the reply which Cardinal Castracane, on behalf of the Sacred Penetentiary at Rome, sent to the Bishop of Laussanne the year before (1842). It is curious to throw light on the then current phenomena of Magnetism, or at least the then current belief about them. I may say that Magnetism was not allowed in this particular case:-
"A person magnetized, who is generally a female, enters into such a state of sleep or drowsiness, called magnetic somnambulism, that neither the loudest noise made in her ears, nor the violence of iron or of fire, can draw her out of it. The magnetizer alone, who has obtained her consent (for her consent is necessary), makes her fall into this species of ecstasy, either by certain touches and gesticulations, made in various directions, if he is near her, or by a simple internal command, if he is distant from her, even several leagues away. Then being interrogated viva voce, or mentally, on her own disease, or on the diseases of other persons, who are absolutely unknown to her, this magnetized person, though ignorant of all, finds herself at the moment endowed with a knowledge far superior to that of the physicians: she gives anatomical descriptions of perfect exactness, points out the cause, seat, nature of the internal diseases of the human body, the most difficult to be known and to be characterized; she details their progress, their variations, and complications, the whole in appropriate terms; she often predicts their precise duration, and prescribes the simplest and most effectual remedies for them.
"If the person about whom the individual magnetized is consulted be present, the magnetizer brings them both into correspondence by contact. If he is absent, a lock of his hair is merely approximated to the hand of the magnetized individual, the latter tells what it is without looking at it, also to whom the hair belongs, where the person from whom the hair came is at the present moment, what he is doing; and with respect to his disease, she gives all the information above-mentioned, and that with as much accuracy as if a post mortem had been made. Lastly, the magnetized person does not see by her eyes. She may be blindfolded, and she will read anything whatever, even without knowing how to read a book or manuscript, which shall have been placed open or closed, either on her head or on her abdomen. It is from this region also that her words seem to come. Drawn out of this state by a command, even an internal one, of the magnetizer, or, as it were, spontaneously at the instant announced by her, she appears to be completely ignorant of everything that happened to her during the accession, however long it may have been; nothing of all that was asked her, of all that she answered, or that she suffered, has left an idea in her understanding, or the slightest trace in her memory."

Magnetic anaesthesia and the discovery of chloroform

Among the causes that acted adversely to the diffusion of Magnetism was the discovery of chloroform. 
Until insensibility to pain was produced by Animal Magnetism, every surgical operation was the infliction of torture, often of the most excruciating kind. 
But with animal magnetism, instead of the patient being strapped down immovably, while the surgeon did the best he could upon the writhing, struggling, screaming form, the magnetized patient placidly slept, or calmly conversed with a bystander, while a limb was amputated, or a tumour cut out. 

A case of the absolutely painless removal of a cancerous breast was one of the facts certified to in the Report of 1831; and, year after year, the perfectly authenticated record of painless operations in the magnetic state grew larger. Of course these cases aroused the curiosity and interest of the public; and this greatly disturbed the doctors, who met the accounts by declaring that the patients had been bribed or trained by the magnetizers to pretend to feel nothing; and that even if the insensibility were true, -it is wrong to bring it about, for pain is part of God's order, and, therefore, beneficial. An instance in point is thus mentioned by Dr. Kingsbury in his work on Hypnotic Suggestion:-
"In November, 1842, a report was read to the Royal Medical and Chiropodist Society of London of an amputation of the thigh painlessly performed during hypnosis (mesmerism), by Mr. Squire Ward,of Wellow Hall. This paper was received with the greatest derision. Dr. Copeland moved that all mention of Mr. Ward's case be erased from the minutes, because ‘if the account of the man's experiencing no agony during the operation were true, the fact was unworthy of consideration, because pain is a wise provision of Nature, and patients ought to suffer pain while their surgeon is operating; they are all the better for it, and recover better.' Among the others who were present and acquiesced in this folly were Sir Benjamin Brodie, Mr. Lister, Mr. Caesar Hawkins, and Dr. Marshall Hall."
Dr. James Esdaile, who worked in India, reports hundreds of cases where the use of magnetism was helpful to get anesthesia. 
Esdaile wrote that “animal magnetism is a natural God-given method of healing. The power produced is similar both in quality, character and degree to the power of the Creator. All men have within them special power given by God to direct their movement and provide for themselves”.
The discovery of chloroform relieved the doctors from their embarrassment by putting into their hands a means of producing insensibility which could be used with everyone, and was speedy in its action; whereas, the production of magnetic insensibility was  tedious and uncertain for most physicians who hadn’t been properly trained, although in every other way better than that produced by chloroform. 
Chloroform is well-known for having killed its hundreds every year, while no death was ever caused by magnetic insensibility; but the public was told that in these fatal cases there was something wrong with the patient himself, whose fault, in a sense, it therefore was, and not the fault of the chloroform or of the doctors, that the accident occurred. 
We constantly read in the papers of last century of a death under chloroform, followed by the verdict at the inquest, dictated by the doctor, of "died from failure of the heart's action" -all deaths come from "failure of the heart's action," or else "from want of breath," but neither coroner nor jury ever seem to see the doubtless unintentional medical joke.115
The academy and magnetism116
“There is a measure of incredulity from our ignorance as well as from our knowledge” Robert Chambers

I need not dwell upon the opposition of the Faculty generally as a cause of the eclipse of Hypnotism in its mesmeric form, for that is known to everyone. However mistaken and unreasonable that opposition may seem to us, we must remember that in most instances it was perfectly conscientious; for the doctors really and truly thought that their own system was right, and that the magnetizers were a set of humbugs and frauds; or else were a pack of deluded fools. 
But while the doctors may claim to be held blameless, on conscientious grounds, for their opposition, they cannot be acquitted of the prejudice, ignorance, stupidity, and conceit which caused them to err conscientiously. And conscience, in their case, was ably backed up by fear of pecuniary loss, by esprit de corps, and by a secret or “subconscious" dread lest, peradventure, their much boasted knowledge should turn out, after all, to be worthless. We must remember, too, that, as is, usually the case, the active opposition came from a few individuals, whose followers gave that opposition weight by their passive and dogged acquiescence; an acquiescence which, nevertheless, often became lukewarm, for, as the evidence in favour of Magnetism accumulated, a good many of the resisting doctors began to be secretly puzzled, and some of them even showed themselves individually disposed to adopt magnetic treatment in a small way as soon as ever they received a "mandate" to that effect from the public-very much as is the case now with regard to "Suggestive Therapeutics."
It looked at one time as if that mandate was forthcoming, in the shape of a growing belief in the efficacy of Magnetism on the part of the more intelligent part of the community, and even the Faculty itself seemed at one moment about to open its eyes.. 
Sandby remarks that in 1839 The British and Foreign Medical Review called Animal Magnetism "a great delusion," to have anything to do with which “degraded" medical men. In 1845 the same journal, in reviewing Dr. Esdaile's “Mesmerism in India," allowed that there was "a reality in the simple phenomena of Mesmerism" - it could hardly do less, unless it wished to intimate that the Bombay Presidency Surgeon and the Governor General of India were monumental liars; and in 1846 that journal had so far altered its opinions on the subject as to say:--
"We conceive that the evidence attesting the fact of certain abnormal states being induced by Mesmerism, is now of such a character that it can no longer be philosophically disregarded by the members of our profession, but that they are bound to meet it. Indeed we do not hesitate to assert that the testimony is now of so varied and extensive a kind, so strong, and in a certain proportion of cases so seemingly unexceptionable, as to authorize us, nay, in honesty, to compel us to recommend that an immediate and complete trial of the practice be made in surgical cases."
The “Medico-Chirurgical Review” also, which had previously been noted for its ignorant abuse of Animal Magnetism, in reviewing Esdaile's book, says (October, 1846):-
"Without agreeing with our author in the generally favourable estimate he gives of Mesmerism, we may state that we believe the cases we have alluded to are entitled to belief, and that the subject is one of such vast importance as to call for a searching investigation."
Again, Sandby says: --
"It is a fact that a numerous portion of the junior members of the medical profession are alive to the truths of Mesmerism, and only biding their time till the ripened mind of the public gives them a signal for its more general adoption. It is a fact that very many individuals among the younger portion of the clergy are conscious of the medical value of the science, and are introducing its practice as one of their means of parochial usefulness."
Lenght of some process of magnetizing
In 1842 Chenevix, in his work on Mesmerism117, had declared that "Mesmerism is established”.
But the success of Magnetism was fatal to it, for the magnetic physicians got more patients than they could attend to properly with advantage to themselves. 
In fact, Magnetism involves individual attention.
Physicians made a practice of treating every case individually, studying it almost as something sui generis; and it required from half-an-hour to one hour or more to give a treatment. 
Moreover, in some cases, it often took weeks, or even months, for the benefit of Magnetism to show itself. 
How to speed up Magnetism
 In our school we have experimented with all systems of magnetism and have seen that it is in fact possible to speed up the process of magnetism in different ways:
The first is by working on oneself to enhance vitality,  energy and sensitivity.
A second one is by mixing fascination and magnetism.   Fascination though, has always been a closed school; moreover, many magnetizers want to resort to magnetism alone, without attending to psychological differences between individuals. That sometimes can hinder the needed sensitivity.
A third one is by using symbols which speak directly to the non- rational and unconscious mind.
Applying even only one of these three systems speeds up  the results incredibly. Sometimes we can get results in instants. For example Mesmer used the first two systems, and the third one in the societies of Harmony, where symbols were on the walls to activate the unconscious reactions.
Our Master Prof. Erminio Di Pisa used mainly the gaze to achieve his instant healings.
Andalini or Alalouf, modern magnetists living in Italy and in France instead used their energy and got results in few minutes.
  Magnetism can even work without the application of any one or all of these three aforementioned methods, but this demands immense faith and patience from both doctor and patient; and it seriously curtailed the practice, and therefore the income, of any doctor who devoted himself exclusively to magnetic treatment.
To give one's own vitality perseveringly to a patient for months, watching the effect of every ‘pass,’ and constantly exerting the will, is a very different thing from the hasty recognition of well-known symptoms, and the scribbling off of an “indicated" prescription learned from some official list of remedies.
The fact is that many times, as the method was standardized, many people thought that the method was more important than the person doing it. In reality for getting results in magnetism regular work on oneself is necessary.
Magnetism is more like an art that must rely on sensitivity for getting fast results. If treated as a standard technique and without attention to sensitivity, longer procedures would be necessary.
  While the magnetic physician was laboriously treating one patient, the “regular” doctor could attend to a dozen. Moreover, he could treat them with a much lighter heart; for when anything went wrong with his patient the medicine was blamed; while if Magnetism did not always cure, it was declared to be the fault of the system of treatment, or of the magnetizer himself. 
It was, moreover, the tediousness of the magnetic process that caused magnetizers to avail themselves so willingly of the services of the "medical clairvoyant," who not only caused a relapse into the habit of administering drugs, but, by contributing largely to the magnetizer's reputation for quackery, and did much to strengthen the demand of the doctors that the right to magnetize should be confined to themselves.
Magnetism can be very fast and often gives results in minutes, but for getting fast results it is necessary to:
- Work on oneself
- Use all possible elements that can help therapy
- Rely on sensitivity
- Avoid relying exclusively on standard procedures 
Only at this point can results be obtained very fast, sometimes in a matter of instants.
The doctor's livelihood threatened
 The outcry of the doctors in the early part of 1800 for a monopoly of the right to magnetize is interesting to us, because it has its parallel today in a similar demand on their part for the exclusive right to hypnotize. As the great majority of doctors believed that Magnetism was pernicious humbug, it stands to reason that they wanted the exclusive right, to magnetize, not for the sake of making use of Magnetism, but for the purpose of ‘killing it off’ by preventing its employment. It seems strange that, with the public so deeply prejudiced against Magnetism, and with the narrow limits within which its use was conditioned by circumstances, the doctors should fear it so much. The reason why they did so, however, is not far to seek. One of the blessings attributed to Animal Magnetism, and on which every writer on the subject dwells, is that it enables anyone to alleviate the sufferings of others. It enables the parent to give health and vitality to the child, the husband to the wife, or vice versa; in fact, to a great extent it obviates the necessity for calling in the doctor; for there is nothing in the art of magnetizing that cannot be learned in a week sufficiently for family practice, that is to say, sufficiently to meet the requirements of the ‘out-of-sorts’ or ‘not-feeling-well’ condition which creates the ‘doctor habit.’ And in most cases professional magnetizers were glad to avail themselves on occasion of the magnetic assistance of a member of the patient's family; indeed, it sometimes happened that a parent or a husband performed a remarkable cure when shown how to operate. For instance, Dr. Elliotson writes in the "Zoist" about a case of this kind:--
"I showed his wife how to make slow passes from opposite his forehead to opposite his stomach with one hand, held at a distance of a few inches from his face, both parties looking at each other in perfect silence, and all the room being perfectly still, for at least half-an-hour, and at least once a day. I told her she might change her hand when it was tired, and that she must either stand before or at one side of her husband, or sit a good deal higher than he was, or her hand would soon tire; and that if he should go to sleep, she had better continue the passes till the sleep was deep, and then contentedly allow it to expend itself, as it was sure to do sooner or later. At the same time, I begged him to omit all medicine, and live just as had always been his habit. This was done, and he obtained a complete recovery.”
Had this system of family magnetizing been generally adopted, the function of the doctor would have become merely that of supervisor in serious cases; and, of course, that did not suit the Faculty at all. Moreover, the operating member of the family would soon have developed into an expert himself; and then what would have become of the doctors ? It was the instinct of self – preservation that caused the doctors to clamour for a monopoly of Magnetism; and, as I have said, they succeeded in getting that monopoly in most European countries, unencumbered by any obligation to practice magnetic healing, and without giving any guarantee that if they did so they were in any way competent-either through study, or by natural gift.
 From Mesmer down, however, magnetizers who belonged to the medical profession declared that only doctors should magnetize, and some lay magnetizers backed them up in that opinion; but Mesmer, De Puysegur, and a hundred other magnetizers who took that view, certainly did not mean that the members of a profession that as a whole was completely opposed to Magnetism, and profoundly ignorant of it, should have the irresponsible monopoly of its employment. Neither could they have wished to convey the impression that the study of official or orthodox medicine gives to the doctors the smallest knowledge of Magnetism. What their demand for a monopoly meant was that a knowledge of Animal Magnetism should form part of the equipment of every physician; that only a person who understood both systems of treatment, and could use either effectually as the occasion presented itself, should be allowed to practice Medicine; for, with the exception of Mesmer, and a few other early enthusiasts, every magnetizer acknowledged that there are cases in which Magnetism (at least with our present knowledge of it) does no good, and in which the sufferer must recur to other methods for arousing the curative forces of Nature.
The effect of making Animal Magnetism a monopoly of the doctors was disastrous to it as a subject needing exploration and study in and for itself; for the medical men who employed it used it empirically, as they did their drugs, or explained its action by some superficial hypothesis; and they deprecated its use for any other purpose than the cure of disease. Even Dr. Esdaile, a daring, original, and very successful magnetizer (about whom I shall have something to say further on), thought it wrong to induce the higher phenomena solely for the purpose of scientific study. It was only in France and in the United States, countries that refused to give the doctors. a monopoly, that new developments in Magnetism took place. Those new developments have been `more and more in the direction of the psychological side of Animal Magnetism, which the doctors, by reason of the materialistic nature of their education, are, as a body perhaps less qualified to deal with than any other educated people; and these developments have, in fact, been largely the work` of laymen. What is now known as Hypnotism is chiefly mental in its operation; but Hypnotism, as understood and practiced by Braid, was principally physical, in regard both to causes and to effects. It was because this was the case that Hypnotism came into touch and into conflict with Magnetism; and Braid's discovery was, of all the causes that worked against the magnetizers, the one which operated with the greatest effect, by taking the wind out of the sails of Animal Magnetism and leaving it be calmed. Mesmerism today is still where it was half a century ago.
Magnetism and Spiritualism
Magnetism as a healing agent also became associated in the public mind with a certain type of Spiritualism, which advertised itself as a branch of Animal Magnetism. 
This school of Magnetism (so-called) or branch of Magnetism, was found chiefly in France, and came to a head in the 1840, thus overlapping modern Hypnotism, although ante-dating it in origin; and in some way was considered by some injurious to Animal Magnetism because it introduced into it matters against which strong prejudice existed.
I allude here to Spiritualistic Magnetism, the best known exponent of which is Cahagnet (1809-1885).

L.A.Cahagnet 
This was quite a different thing from the early ‘Spiritualistic’ school of Faith Healers. It grew out  of  clairvoyance, being  founded  on  the revelations  of  lucid  somnambulists; and  was  a mixture  of  those  revelations,  of the system of Swedenborg, and of Modern Spiritualism,  with   a  dash of ceremonial  magic118.
The origin of this school is contemporary of Puysegur.
Whilst the Marquis de Puysegur was making convert in every direction, by his wonderful somnambulists, a magnetizer of a still higher tone appeared on the scene in the person of the Chevalier de Barberini, a gentleman of Lyons, whose magnetic processes, associated with prayer, produced results even more extraordinary than the clairvoyants of Puységur.119
The chevalier de Barberin and the quest for other dimensions
Some time in the spring of 1784, in Lyon was created a magnetic group called ‘La Concorde’ to which pertained two persons: de Barberin and Monspey.
They emphasized the importance of magnetizer's preparation, state of mind etc...
They found that when they magnetized they were able to feel in their own bodies the ailments of those they were treating and to operate accordingly.
Editor's note This concept is very interesting. The ability to ‘feel’ the other's ailment reminds us of the modern theory of Ramachandran about ‘mirror neurons’ that fire when observing the behaviour of the other, as though the observer were himself acting. Modern scientists have supposed they are involved in understanding other people's feelings (empathy) and that they have played a role in the development of human culture.

Another possible concept that can fit this case is the idea of ‘quantum entanglement’
The power of sympathetic diagnosis submitted to test 
The power of the barberininst method of diagnosis was put to the test during the summer of 1784 in three experiments at the Lyon Veterinary College with the cooperation of the director and various students120.
All experiments were succesful and of a similar pattern.
We will cite one of them: in the presence of a large number of witnesses two barberinist initiates, Millanois and Dutreich, were given an ailing horse to diagnose. They announced that the animal was diseased in the lateral and anterior part of the right lung, and in the left lung all over but particularly toward the sixth of the true ribs, and there were obstructions especially in the liver and spleen.    These diagnoses were proved correct at autopsy.
Further developments and theories of the barberinist school
The Barberinist school merged and became the ‘magnetic branch’ of a network of masonic lodges (Bienfaisance) in which an important figure was J.B. Willermoz (1730-1824), disciple of Martinez de Pasqually. Another member was L.C. de Saint Martin (1743-1803) who later became known as the "Unknown Philosopher".
De Barberin and saint Martin developed the doctrines and the practices of what came to be called the "Barberinist" school of animal magnetism.
The Chevalier de Barberini magnetized his subjects both by manipulations and will, but in most instances, the effects he produced, threw the patients into that state now known as trance and ecstasy. Visions of the most exalted character followed. The “lucids" described scenes and persona in the other world; traversed the regions of disembodied souls, and only returned to earth reluctantly, to relate their aerial ?ights to wondering listeners, and describe to bereaved mourners, the apparitions of friends who had long since passed beyond the grave. The Continental Miscellanyy and Foreign Review, describes “The New Sect of Barberiniats," and af?rms that in Sweden and Germany, where they were very numerous, “these fanatics were called Spiritualists, to distinguish them from the followers of M. de Puységur, who were termed Experimentalists.” 
M. Cahagnet
M. Cahagnet was a man of the people and though a sensible and interesting writer, was neither well read, nor highly educated. He affirms that he was a ‘materialist’ when first his attention was attracted to the subject of animal magnetism, but being of a thoughtful nature, he determined to devote all the leisure he could spare to a thorough examination of its possibilities. When he found that he possessed the power to induce the magnetic sleep in others, he proceeded on the plan then generally adopted by mesmerists, namely, to try how far he could succeed in biologizing his subjects, that is to say, to substitute his own senses, mind, and will, for those of the sleeper.
In the course of these experiments M. Cahagnet discovered that he could effect remarkable cures of disease, and being naturally of a benevolent disposition, he determined to bend all his energies in this desirable direction. He soon found, however, that he was destined to realize the aphorism, “ he built wiser than he knew." A new and most perplexing obstacle arose to confound his philosophy and scatter his theories to the winds; this was the fact, that some of his subjects, instead of representing what simply he willed, or manifesting—in accordance with his views of biology—merely the influence of his mind, began to transcend both will and mind, and wander off in space, to regions they persisted in calling the “land of spirits,” and to describe people, whom they emphatically affirmed to be the souls of those whom the world called dead.
For a long time M. Cahagnet strove vehemently to combat what he termed these "wild hallucinations," but when he found them constantly recurring, and vast numbers of those who had come to witness the experiments in magnetism recognising in the descriptions given by the somnambulists the spirits of those whom they had known on earth, and mourned as dead, conviction became inevitable, and the magnetizer, like his visitors, was compelled to admit a new and wonderful phase of lucidity, and one which carried the vision of the clairvoyant from earth to heaven, and pierced the veil which separated the mortal from the realms of immortality. It was after a long series of carefully conducted experiments of the above description, that M. Cahagnet was finally persuaded to give the results of his wonderful seances to the world, under the name and style of The Celestial Telegraph, or, Secrets of the Life to Come.121
Although the magnetisers of the school of the chevalier de Barberin occupied themselves with the cure of disease, the chief aim of spiritualists who followed Cahagnet was to acquire, through the instrumentality of Magnetism, the certainty of a future life, and to learn its conditions. 
The ideas born out of the group of chevalier de Barberin and Cahagnet were also influenced by Swedenborg and influenced the spiritualist movement that developed in the following century. 
Personal Improvement
Breathing exercise (Reno Baujolais).
Sit down with your spine straight
exhale for 7 seconds
hold for 3 seconds
now let the air come in for 5 seconds
hold again for 3 seconds
Do this exercise for no more than three minutes.
As you do it all your attention must be on the act of breathing.
Different uses of magnetism
It must be remembered that the boundaries of all the seemingly independent departments of the mind are very vague. It is sometimes impossible to discriminate between the physical and the mental in Magnetism, both in regard to cause and to effect; and the magnetic sleep, if the process of magnetizing be continued, passes through deepening stages until perfect lucidity is reached, in which the vision of the clairvoyant is seemingly independent of the limitations of time and space. 
The practice of each sectarian - Magnetist, Mesmerist, Hypnotist, Suggestionist, Psychometrist - is to put a ring fence round a portion of the field, and to confine himself to what he finds therein, ignoring or denying all that lies beyond. The unseen forces or intelligences, however, have no respect for our arbitrary names and divisions, and almost from the first it occasionally happened that a clairvoyant in the highest magnetic condition saw, described, and conversed with what he believed to be the spirits of the departed; or found himself transported for a time to their abode; all of which, to the more matter-of-fact or scientific magnetizer, as well as to the general public, was nothing short of a scandal to Animal Magnetism.

Two big french Magnetists: The baron Dupotet and Lafontaine.

DUPOTET AND LAFONTAINE. – Dupotet: How he became a magnetizer – His school of Magnetism in Paris – He visits England – His theory – His "Magic Telegraph" Experiments in "suggestion" – The "spiritualist" Magnetism of Cahagnet – The "magic mirror" - Dupotet`s method of magnetising.
Lafontaine: How he became a magnetizer – His belief in the ‘fluid’ – He magnetises the lions in the Zoo – A strange experience – His interview with Pius IX. – His personality 


The new or Puysegurean school of magnetism is intimately connected with the names of Baron Dupotet de Sannevoy, and Mons. Lafontaine of Geneva, who, of all ‘the great magnetisers,’ undoubtedly did the most extensive and valuable missionary work during the forty years that followed the death of Mesmer. No one else had the courage, enthusiasm, or ability to do what they did. It is sometimes said that “but for Dupotet magnetism would have been forgotten after Mesmer, as it was after Van Belmont”; that is equally true of Lafontaine, and before I pass on to the consideration of Braid's work, I must say something about these two missionaries. 
The Baron of Dupotet and the higher level of Magnetism
Dupotet was born in 1796, in Sannevoy (Yonne), of a noble family which had been ruined by the Revolution. He was an idle boy, and loved to spend time out of school and in Nature, but one day he heard his father describing him to a neighbour as a “good-for-nothing”. This touched his pride, and he set to work. In 1815 he heard of Mesmer for the first time, and soon became deeply interested in Animal Magnetism. He read everything on the subject and discovered in himself an extraordinary magnetic power due to his intimate connection to the energy of Nature in which he had spent his adolescence. His first experience had been to throw two young ladies into a profound trance in a few minutes, from which he did not know how to awaken them; for several hours he worked at it with much trepidation, but without avail, when happily they woke up of their own accord. 
What we can learn from Dupotet: Energy and results are connected to how we stay in touch with Nature because Magnetism is Natural. The state induced by Dupotet is described by the moderns as Hypnotic coma and is very rare. Dupotet reached this state at his first try. His energy was at work, and as he described by bringing back memories of his youth, this energy is connected to   Nature.
Later Dupotet visited De Puysegur and Deleuze, who received the young enthusiast kindly, and whom he describes at that time as much disheartened by the then prospects of Magnetism. The result of his visits to Deleuze and De Puysegur was a determination to devote his life to the study and propaganda of Animal Magnetism. He studied and graduated in medicine, but what interested him most were books on Magic. For many years he put himself at the disposal of any scientific man who desired to see experiments, and he was continually employed by the physicians of the different Parisian hospitals to magnetise patients when they desired to make experiments, or witness phenomena, and to teach them how to produce the effects themselves.122
 He was in great demand for that purpose, because he could generally produce at once effects which other magnetisers were able to obtain only after many sittings. His experiences with men of science showed him how unwilling, even unable, they were to recognise facts for which their theories did not furnish them with a plausible explanation; and he did not acquire a high opinion of their intelligence, for their constant endeavour was to bring the phenomena under some known law, obstinately shutting their eyes to anything that refused to go into one or other of their scientific pigeon holes.
What we can learn: instead of trying to fit facts into a theory, we must strive to observe the facts. If we stick to a theory, we will never discover anything new.
Dupotet thought that it was too soon to apply strictly scientific methods to Animal Magnetism. He says, 
"Science knows the agents that it employs, we do not know those we use; and that deprives our explanation of all scientific character. But our creations, the phenomena produced by us, are facts nevertheless."
His school of Magnetism in Paris
 In 1828 Dupotet opened a School of Magnetism in Paris, and soon nearly a hundred pupils were attending his demonstrations, a considerable proportion being medical men. He visited London in 1837, remaining there for 22 months, and doing much to create an interest in Animal Magnetism, which was then hardly known at all in England. He says that for a long time he had to bear every kind of ridicule, insult, and indignity, but that after some months he in great measure succeeded in allaying the prejudice and enmity; and while in London he published a work in English, "An Introduction to the Study of Animal Magnetism," which is still an authority on the subject. When he returned to France, he made an extensive tour in the Provinces, staying for a time in many of the chief cities, where on arrival he always met a violent opposition on the part of the doctors, but generally leaving behind him a group of pupils, or a society of students who carried on magnetic cures and experiments after he had gone.
Dupotet lived a very long life, and during the 1800s he was one of the foremost authorities on Magnetism.
He authored many interesting books which are still published to this day and continue to be a reference point.123
 He founded the “Revue du Magnétisme” which he later   passed on to the Durville brothers at his death in 1881.
Through the work of Dupotet we can therefore see a direct continuation of work with animal magnetism which creates a very clear direct bridge from the work of Mesmer in the 1700s to the work of the Durville  brothers in the 1900s.


F. A. Mesmer (1734-1815)

De Puysegur (1751-1825)

Baron Dupotet (1796 -1881) – School of Magnetism

Continuation of the same school with the Durville Family
Hector and Henry (1848, naissance of Hector – death of Henry about 1962) – (other important contributors were Clément Jagot, Dr. Encausse, Maitre Philippe)

Dupotet’s Methods
Dupotet claimed to prove, that the sleep, to produce which was the object of all the other magnetisers, was not necessary for cure; for he believed that “the magnetic medium, … contained in itself a curative virtue.”
 He held that the fluid, at whatever point it enters the body, circulates in it, and passes out by the extremities. He found that complete incredulity was no obstacle to the operation of Magnetism. 
He said that silk and metals have no counteracting effect, as at that time they were believed by other magnetisers to have.
Magnetizing sleeping people
Dupotet found that people could react to magnetism even while sleeping. For example, we read124 that after making passes for five or ten minutes over a child who had been put to sleep, he produced slight muscular contractions simply by bringing his finger near the muscles; by placing it near the breast he influenced the breathing, which became laboured; by passing his hand over the whole of the body he produced slight shocks, and finally awoke the child.
Changing the breathing of a sleeping person was the first experiment that Dupotet said he had done to effectively learn magnetism125.
Magnetizing animals
Du Potet obtained similar effects on dogs, cats, even on horses.
Different levels of Magnetism 
De Puysegur had said that the magnetiser will never be able to do more than to "turn the handle"; but Dupotet believed that the magnetiser could do more than only act mechanically, because he could to some extent understand and regulate ‘the machine’ itself. 
“The wisest magnetisers are those who unassumingly follow the course of nature, and do not presume to control her by laws of their own fabrication; but they are few, indeed, compared with those who strive to outvie each other by feats of skill, and unlimited exaggeration of their own individual power” Jules Dupotet de Sennevoy
Dupotet was much more of an experimenter than any other prominent magnetiser, and he produced most of the phenomena now called ‘hypnotic,’ for these phenomena were, almost all of them, known to the magnetisers, but were seldom induced by them, although they were the staple phenomena of the electro-biologists a few years later. Dupotet, however, gave to these phenomena a peculiar explanation of his own –he considered them magical performances. Although he could do, and did, all that the other magnetisers accomplished, he claimed that, in addition, he produced effects which were quite different from any that they obtained, or which he himself produced by their processes. He says:-
"The agent (Magnetism) that is employed, has its inherent properties; left to itself, that is to say, when it is not impregnated with the properties which the soul or spirit can give it, it acts in conformity with the laws of physics, and presents analogies with the magnet. The important thing is to know in the first place what are the natural fixed properties of the magnetic agent, and then to understand those that we can impart to it by our will."
The material or mechanical means employed by the ordinary magnetisers, such as fixing the eye, making passes, touching or pointing to different parts, he considered to produce results according to the ‘natural, fixed properties of the magnetic agent’; and when they were assisted by the will of the magnetiser it so happened that it was always with the definite intention of curing a patient that they were employed. But when the soul or spirit was infused into the Magnetism, he thought that almost any desired result might be obtained; but not so much by a direct operation of the will, as by a distinct set of laws which in that case govern the manifestations of the ‘magnetic agent,’ which then becomes a magical agent. He says:-
“By an act of my understanding I separate from myself a force. That force is real, though invisible. Deposited upon anything it fixes itself there as an essence; and soon it exercises an influence upon its surroundings, and magic begins: that is to say extraordinary phenomena take place which strike us with astonishment. It is not that which we will that takes place; no, we have nothing to do with what occurs."












It was by the exercise of this higher power that Dupotet worked what he called his "magic telegraph," by which he could produce either physical or mental effects, but which was worked in both cases mentally, and would at present undoubtedly be called ‘mental suggestion.’ Hypnotists will recognise in Dupotet's description of the phenomena he produced a curious mixture of those which they know under separate names, such as imitation, fascination, echolala, illusions of the senses, and hallucinations. He says:-
"I think in front of someone magnetised, he hears me, and repeats the words that I pronounce interiorily; I make a gesture, a sign, and he repeats it with such rapidity that the two motions are one. I drink, he drinks; I sing, and he sings in the same tone and time; I cough, spit, he does the same; I suffer pain in some part, he suffers in the same way, any exclamation the pain draws from me he repeats exactly."
Those he calls physical phenomena; and by fixing the eye of the subject he produced an imitation so instantaneous that it was impossible to say which of the two was the imitator. Braid noticed the same instantaneity in hypnotic imitation, and so have modern hypnotists, who also can produce this phenomenon. The ‘spiritual’ effects of his ‘magic telegraph’ he thus describes:-
"I take a glass of water; at my thought, by my will, this liquid will no longer be water, but wine, brandy, liqueur, medicine, and I see effects produced as real, as positive as by those agents themselves… And for these phenomena, is it necessary that the subject should be asleep? Not at all! He is awake, sees with his eyes, has his wits about him, and yet cannot resist the power of a creation which people call ‘imaginary.' I create fire, I make a cold thing burning, or my subject will hold a hot coal in his hand without being burned… I think of cold, and he shivers. I go in imagination on the sea, and he becomes seasick and vomits."
He goes on to say that in the same way, by a thought, he could arouse any passion he desired in the mind of his subject. These mental effects, or effects of mental suggestion, seem to have been common to the magnetisers sixty or seventy years ago; for Dupotet does not at all claim them as his speciality, but says, "It is child's play for the magnetisers to-day to take away the power of hearing, feeling, or seeing by simply willing it, without saying a word." Another common physical experiment which Dupotet and other magnetisers performed was to make some passes over one of several similar chairs in the absence of the subject, who, when called into the room, sat in each chair for a moment successively, and fell asleep when he came to the magnetised one, the other chairs having no effect on him. This the magnetisers called "putting magnetism into, or on, the chair"; but Dupotet regarded it as a magical operation. It is difficult to conceive what the modern Suggestionist could make of the phenomena, unless he attributed, it to mental suggestion. Dupotet, in fact, did not regard these phenomena as instances of the subject believing that he was tasting or hearing or seeing one thing when in reality he was tasting or hearing or seeing something else, which is the suggestionist explanation, an explanation which rests upon the completely credulous condition of the subject. Dupotet considered that the subject really did have the sensorial experiences which he said he had, not merely that he believed that he had them. The subject in a ‘magical’ way actually tasted, saw, and heard by making use of the operator's sense organs,' and this, when he had the subject in complete rapport with himself, Dupotet called "installing himself in the subject." He says, moreover, "It is not only his own soul that the magnetiser has power to lodge in the body of his subject, when he has driven out the subject's own; he can introduce that of another, person, living or dead, and transform his subject into any personage he pleases: Caesar, Napoleon, Talma; even into a young girl, full of modesty. "That, of course, is a common experiment of the electro-biologists; and is known in Hypnotism by the name its "discoverer" Charles Richet gave it-"the objectivation of types."
What Dupotet teaches us: we create our reality. We can reach a quantum level where things which are normally impossible become possible.
Dupotet also practised what is now known as ‘verbal suggestion,’ a phenomenon now used by all schools of Hypnotism for the cure of disease. 
But Dupotet complicated verbal suggestion in a curious way, by associating it with some physical act or thing, which, according to his magical theory, was the vehicle for the transmission of magnetic influence, for he thought that Magnetism is the connecting link between soul and matter, or the agent by which the soul acts on the body.






 
He thought that the material sign is the vehicle that conveys the magical power; for instance, he believed that the sign of the cross, or holy water, in former times conveyed the real effect-producing blessing of a priest; but that those signs did so only when animated by the soul or spirit of the person who gives the benediction; and that the priests have now lost the magnetic or magical knowledge of how to put their own Magnetism into the blessings they give, therefore these are now merely perfunctory ceremonials or conventional expressions of good will. He describes an experiment in verbal suggestion, as he performed it, thus:-
"I take a man full of health and strength, and I put another person's cane into his hand, and say to that man, who is wide awake: ‘You will be drunk in a minute, and you will feel and behave like a drunken man.' The subject smiles, and looks at me, doubting not my good faith, but my power. Hardly has a minute elapsed before he begins to stagger, his expression changes, his eyes grow bloodshot, &c."
In modern terms we could interpret the ‘signs’ of Dupotet as ‘energetic anchors’ if we adopt an energetic framework.
To remove the ‘spell’ an electro-biologist, forerunner of modern stage hypnotist, would clap the subject on the back, and cry "All right!" and a Suggestionist would tell him that he was quite sober again; but Dupotet having, both in his own mind and in that of the subject, associated the drunkenness with the physical act of holding the cane, had merely to take that cane out of the staggering man's hand and he immediately became sober again. In a similar way, by the action of some arbitrarily chosen talisman, he turned his subjects into old people, "with every sign of decrepitude in attitude and feature.”
These experiments would undoubtedly, and perhaps rightly, be attributed to simple Suggestion; and they are matched by suggestions given by our hypnotists in which some material thing acts as a reminder of the Suggestion. For instance, when a hypnotist gives a ring to a subject, and tells him that whenever he turns it round on his finger three times he will go to sleep, Suggestion would be an entirely satisfactory explanation of this "magical" phenomenon, were it not that it is known to those who have investigated hypnotic phenomena more deeply than our modern hypnotists do, that there is an obscure class of phenomena which seem to imply the existence of some extraneous force or influence, the nature and extent of which are now unknown. The experiences of the magnetiser Cahaghnet, and the experiments of Colonel de Rochas, Dr. Baraduc, and others are cases in point; but as they deal with matters that lie in great part beyond my present field, I can do no more than suggest that some of Dupotet's "magical" work may possibly have involved that unknown but apparently very real force or influence. I allude to the experiments which Dupotet describes in his "Magie Devoilee." In that work, he says that he left the road made by Mesmer and De Puysegur, which was servilely followed by the other magnetisers, and the phenomena obtained by which he considered purely physical-and had applied himself to developing a Magnetism which resembles that of Paracelsus, Van Belmont, and other ancients, for it was founded on the power of the soul. This he thought to be the true Magnetism of Mesmer, which he had refrained from revealing. Dupotet's idea was that there is one ‘living force,’ which is wielded by the ‘soul,’ or thought-power of man. This force sets in motion the “dead” forces, among which are electricity and magnetism; but those are only two of an unknown number of forces which it is probably in the power of the soul to set into action, and which forces, when put into motion, produce effects that have to be experimentally studied, since their operation is at present unknown. In fact, Dupotet believed in ‘magic,’ but without being superstitious, for he took the scientific view that the effects produced by the magicians are due to natural causes, being the result of certain forces in Nature, the existence of which in former times was known to a few students, who handed down their knowledge of those forces to a small number of successors under pledge of secrecy, but who guarded them most jealously from the public. Over and over again he claims that he has rediscovered the existence of the mysterious force with which the magicians worked, and says that he does not know if any of the secret brotherhood still remains on earth, but that, at all events, the obscure but tremendous forces, though now forgotten or ignored, still exist undiminished. It is not easy for anyone educated in our present scientific ideas to grasp such conceptions, which differ, from our present notions in that they introduce life into everything, and accord to ‘the soul’ the power to imbue the ‘brute’  forces of Nature with a portion of life sufficient for the carrying out of certain purposes. Looked at with that idea in the mind, everything takes on a different aspect, somewhat like the entirely different appearance which plants would assume in the eyes of anyone who had studied botany only in a herbarium, and for the first time saw the living herbs growing' in the fields, instead of cut and dried and put up in bundles.

Dupotet wrote many books

The theory of Dupotet 
In the first place, Dupotet adopted Mesmer's idea, that when the forces of Nature are set in motion by the will or ‘soul,’ the action is like that of flame, which spreads by its own energy so long as it has material to feed on. With a single match one might burn a whole city; and even so, by setting in motion certain natural forces, a man might do great good or great harm - might create or destroy, cure or kill. Once a natural force is set going in this way (psychically instead of physically, as Science now only sets natural forces going), the soul imparts to it a kind of intelligence that causes it to do the work demanded of it. No further effort is required, but he who sets the force in motion must be ready to control it, and to arrest it, or unforeseen and disastrous consequences may happen. That which is necessary to awaken and direct the ‘magic’ force is will, which Dupotet conceived as a strong, firm, unwavering, clearly conceived intention when doing the thing needful to set the force in motion. Our present Science does not recognise the power of intention, and never attempts to use it; and its material and mechanical methods of ‘generating’ and using natural forces, effective as they are in some respects, when compared with the psychic method may be said to bear a relation to it similar to that which compulsion bears to persuasion. We pride ourselves upon being able to "tame," or "harness" the forces of Nature, and we can do so to some extent, but those forces always resist us instead of acting with us, and require constant exertion on our part to keep them in action.
His “Magic Telegraph" Experiments in ‘suggestion’
Those were Dupotet's ideas; and here is one of his experiments. He drew two straight parallel lines with charcoal, about four or five feet long, and twelve inches apart; and, just beyond the opening at one end, he drew a spiral, or coil, some ten or twelve inches in diameter. These lines he drew slowly with intense concentration, and with the strong image in his mind that the lines are the road to a great precipice, and that the coil is that tremendous precipice. That done, he exerted his will no more, but requested someone to stand at the other end of the lines and look at the coil. That person felt nothing at first, and after a few minutes perhaps asked what is expected to happen, but was not informed; but presently he commenced to look at the coil with apparent curiosity and attention, and began to move slowly, in a hesitating way towards it. "His face gradually assumes an expression of anxiety, then of astonishment and fear; he drops on his knees, and crawls slowly forward, clutching the ground, until he has reached the end of the lines, and lying flat, peers into the coil, his hair standing on end, and his breath coming convulsively. In a moment or two he sinks down unconscious, and is quickly carried away, to slowly recover consciousness in another room." When he comes to himself the subject has no recollection of what has happened, except that the last thing he remembers is that he was standing at the end of the lines looking at the coil, and wondering what would happen.”
Dupotet’s “magic mirror”
Dupotet worked a lot with mirrors. Since very ancient times mirrors are connected to the practice of magnetism and clairvoyance. 
Dupotet's “magic mirror”126 was roughly made with charcoal on the floor; after looking in it for some minutes the percipient saw things which greatly excited him, but of which he very seldom retained any recollection; generally what he saw filled him with terror or horror, but sometimes he seemed to have delightful visions, and occasionally he saw things that caused immoderate laughter. Those who were undergoing that experience did not speak, though they gave vent to exclamations. That Suggestion may have entered into these visions is very possible, but Dupotet says, and repeats it more than once, that his subjects were ignorant of what was to occur; that no word was spoken; that the person experimented upon was, in many cases, a stranger called in on the spot, who had never heard of Magnetism.
 A kind of psychometry seems to have entered into some of his experiments; for instance, on one occasion he covered the mirror with some dry earth taken from an ancient Druidical monument, and the “percipient” saw a vision of five human victims being sacrificed, the singular thing being that five skeletons were found in the place from which the earth was taken. 

These figures drawn by Dupotet on the floor exercised a powerful “fascination”; it often happened that those merely looking on at the experiment were seized by the “magic” influence, and rushed forward to peer into the mirror, violently pushing aside anyone who was in their way, and having quite a battle with the person already in possession of the mirror. Some subjects, on the other hand, were not affected by the mirror at all.127

The effect of mirrors and polarized light on the mind
Modern science can explain why mirrors are so powerful and why they produce such strange effects.
		In fact what appears is that mirrors enhance some inner perceptions. 
On the psychological and energetic planes, the mirror reflects the energy of the person who is staring, and on a physical plane it also creates a polarized light effect, that operates on the mind by further enhancing these inner perceptions, and creating visual distorsions that allow subconscious elements to become more evident. 
Dr. Lefebure did much research on the effects on mirrors. It seems that polarized light has some powerful effects on the mind128. From ancient times visions are often connected with light and even more often with reflected lights.
Light in itself brings the visual cortex to its maximum level of excitation. Polarized light in some way creates a more coordinated reaction in the brain. It is probable that many neurons operate together in a very coherent way, and coherence is a key factor in quantistic effects. 
In direct radiation, the waves of light circulate in all directions: this is what we mean by diffused light (1). When the light meets a refracting surface (2) it is polarized, that is, ordered in parallel planes.
Furthemore is this concentration that causes indirect radiation - reflected light (3) - resulting in glare.
When light is reflected from a surface, it is partially polarized. When it is reflected at a particular angle, 53 degrees in the case of water, it is completely polarized. Such light – the GLARE, can produce distortion in viewing.


A practical suggestion: place yourself in front of a mirror and look at yourself. Try not to blink. A first effect of this practice will be a stronger gaze. A second effect will be a change in your state of mind.
Many times we see that people can reach strong self-hypnotic results through the use of mirrors. Mirrors also enhance concentration129. 
Dupotet exact method for Magic Mirror
These exercises are interesting, and in reality unfold the power of the symbol.
In our seminars we used symbols in a very similar way to what is here described: 
The Baron commences with a consideration of—The necessary psychical condition of the Magnetist, when preparing occult mirrors or circles for developing Clairvoyance. He says, " Should you desire to produce an act of magic, do not select one of those moments when the Soul is enchained. It is essential that you should feel yourself living, and filled with ardour, that your thoughts should be entirely free, that you should clearly see the objects to which they tend, and finally, that your senses should all be awake. It is essential, be it only for a moment, that a fire should circulate in you . . . that there should be a spiritual conception, and that your hand should conduct this divine animated essence, this living magnet, upon a selected surface, for it should at the same instant establish the spiritual rapport. In tracing the disc, it acquires its virtue only when it is made in certain dispositions of spirit. When the Magical sign has in itself the power of the quality that you have impressed thereon, you have no necessity of further preparation. Cover it until you deem it proper to commence the experiment. Avoid everything which disturbs the senses, especially noise. Be calm and tranquil; have no intention of acting by your own self; this disturbs the experiment, and would produce unnatural results. Prepare yourself only for numerous eventualities or accidents, of which several will be formidable. Be quick and prompt in the determinations you will have to take, for the emotions of the Subjects cause their sensibilities to overflow; and it is necessary that you should arrive in time, seize and transport them a good distance away from the Magical sign. Keep them as much as possible from the contact of strangers, and preserve yourself within yourself. Let there be around you sufficient space to move freely, as also the Subject, who will describe circular motions around this sign. Have also an opaque cover to hide the sign instantaneously, in case of need; for often the emotions are so great, the frights so terrible, that if you do not conceal from sight the place where the images appear it will be next to impossible for you to keep your control over the Subject. Be yourself not moved, for you would become unable to calm the nervous disorder. Think that you do not yet know the resistance that the organs can offer to the vital forces, which, under these circumstances, appear increased fivefold. That which is here beheld, surpasses by far that which shows itself, in the nervous affections that may be caused by a disease of the brain or organic disorder. Do not allow yourself to be taken with the charm the Seer sometimes experiences. The flattering things he beholds lasts but for a few moments, and they are soon replaced by sudden terrors. In successful experiments the effects are sometimes laughable, and at other times very serious, because the Subject often falls down insensible. 
I do not know whether the things called Magical possess the force that is attributed to them, for these experiments are, without regard to ceremonies, equally successful, although they are performed without a prayer, without drugs and incense, and in any place whatever. I believe that those who make use of such means know the letter, without knowing the things themselves ("spirit"), and can only act upon weak and diseased imaginations. . . .  
I experience, without doubt, a certain quaking in my being; I can say that I feel in me something unusual. When the experiences are to give a result, I participate in somewise in that which passes, my organism appears somewhat enchained, I can believe myself a part essential, even indispensable, finally a necessary element, in order that the operations of Magnetic Magic should take place. That is all. The rest depends, without doubt, upon the preliminary preparations. I silence within me all ideas that do not relate to the subject itself, and I have but in view the climax, which ever demands great prudence and attention. The Magical circles, of which I vary the dimensions according to my pleasure, are of about twelve centimetres diameter, and are, previous to the experiments, covered with an opaque body. From the moment when the Magical surface is uncovered, I stand quietly at a distance, watching attentively.
It is then easy to recognise those of the spectators that the charm attracts. Their features become changed, there is in their looks something uneasy, their body is tormented, they soon cease to be distracted, and appear to consider only one thing, the Magical sign: at the end of some minutes (three or four on the average), they push themselves strongly forward, a Magnet attracts them, they finally arise and turn around the mirror, stopping beside it, bending down nearly to the ground. . . . 
 Therefore be attentive; you do not know the force (agent) you use; it appears to have affinity with other forces (agents) more subtle than itself, and endowed with higher virtues. 
Even, as in dreams, our eyes are of no service, so it is in these Magical enchantments, the eyes are useless, nevertheless there is vision. The Magnetised do not perceive (by reason) they have intuitions, a knowledge of that which is—during such moments it is as though the soul, the life, had abandoned the body, the senses no more perform their functions. Why must we, for the purpose of seeing clearly, use enchantments ?—It is because our Will alone is powerless, therefore must there be employed the resources of an agent that agitates and disturbs the Will. There is required an element to draw it out of repose. But what is it? From where is that agent to be taken? It is within ourselves. It is but a question of finding it, and to know how to set it in action. Do not think to succeed, if your Soul remains as cold as your hand. All must be preceded by an operation in your own mind. It is necessary for your success that there should be within you a fire that lights itself, and burns invisibly, and, as an essential act for reproduction, it should be your brain through which the vehicle should run, but no other organ, awakening within you a spiritual sense, and is it not necessary, as it treats here of unknown things? It is a great mystery. 
Trace, then, a disc with a very friable piece of coal, "(i.e., a circle with a piece of charcoal that will leave a distinct and well-marked line behind it) ". . . . Whether the form is equal or unequal is of small consequence, but it must be close, and well blacked throughout. Think that in forming it your fingers must not merely be mechanically active; fire must run from them unceasingly, and this without being wandering. Three minutes are sufficient for this first operation."
A demonstration of Baron Dupotet
We read on “Isis Revelata”: “M. Dupotet, proposed, on the 14th of November 1826, to make a committee witnesses of certain experiments, in which he should reduce the question with regard to the magnetic somnambulism to an absolute certainty. He undertook, and we have his promise to this effect under his own hand, to produce at pleasure, and out of sight of those individuals whom he had placed in a state of somnambulism, convulsive motions in any part of their bodies, by merely directing his finger towards that part. These convulsions he regarded as an unequivocal sign of the existence of somnambulism. The committee took advantage of the presence of Baptiste Chamet, already mentioned, to make experiments upon him, for the purpose of elucidating this question. Accordingly, M. Dupotet having placed this person in a state of somnambulism, directed the point of one of his fingers towards those of Chamet, or approximated them with a metallic rod: No convulsive effect was produced. A finger of the magnetizer was again directed towards those of the patient, and there was perceived, in the fore and middle fingers of both hands, a slight motion, similar to that produced by the galvanic pile. Six minutes afterwards, the finger of the magnetizer, directed towards the left wrist of the patient, impressed upon it a complete convulsive motion ; and the magnetizer then informed us, that in five minutes he should do all that he pleased with this man. M. Marc then, placing himself behind the patient, indicated that the magnetizer should endeavour to act upon the fore-finger of the right hand : He directed his own fore-finger towards this part, and the convulsions took place in the left, and in the thigh of the same side. At a later period, the fingers were directed towards the toes, but no effect was produced. Some ulterior manipulations were performed. MM. Bourdois, Guersent, and Gueneau de Massy, successively directed their fingers towards those of the patient, which became contracted at their approach. At a later period, motions were perceived in the left hand, towards which, however, no finger was directed. Finally, we suspended all our experiments, in order to ascertain whether the convulsive motions did not take place when the patient was not magnetised; and these motions were renewed, but more feebly. Hence your committee concluded, that the approximation of the fingers of the magnetizer was not necessary for the production of the convulsions, although M. Dupotet added, that, when they have once commenced, they may be reproduced of themselves.
…
M. Chales, French Consul at Odessa, furnished us with another example of this phenomenon. M. Dupotet magnetised him in our presence, on the 17th of November 1826. He directed his finger towards the left ear, and immediately we perceived a motion in the hair behind the ear, which was ascribed to a contraction of the muscles of that region. The manipulations were renewed with a single hand, without directing the finger towards the ear, and we perceived in the ear a general and lively ascending motion. The finger was then directed towards the same ear, and no effect was produced.
It was principally in the case of M. Petit, tutor (instituteur) at Athis, aged 32 years, that the convulsive motions were developed with the greatest precision by approaching the fingers of the magnetizer. M. Dupotet presented him to the committee upon the 10th of August 1826, informing them that this M. Petit was very susceptible of somnambulism, and that, when in this state, he, M. Dupotet, could at pleasure, and without speaking, by the mere approximation of his fingers, reduce visible convulsive motions in those parts which the committee should point out by writing. The patient was very speedily set asleep, and then the committee, in order to prevent all suspicion of collusion, handed over to M. Dupotet a note written at the moment in silence, in which they pointed out the particular parts which they wished to be convulsed. Provided with these instructions, he first directed his hand towards the left wrist, which became convulsed; he then placed himself behind the patient, and directed his finger first towards the left thigh, then towards the left elbow, and, at last, towards the head. These three parts almost immediately became convulsed. M. Dupotet directed his left leg towards that of the patient, which became so much agitated that he was upon the point of falling. M. Dupotet then directed his foot towards M. Petit's right elbow, which became agitated; he afterwards carried his foot towards the elbow and the left hand, and very strong convulsive motions were developed in the whole upper part of the body. One of the committee, M. Marc, in order to further prevent any kind of deception, put a bandage upon the eyes of the patient, and the same experiments were repeated with a slight difference in the result. After an instantaneous mimic signal from one or two of us, M. Dupotet directed his foot towards the left hand: at its approach both hands became agitated. We desired that the action should be carried at once to the two inferior members. At first, the fingers were approximated without any result. Soon afterwards, the somnambulist first moved his hands, then drew back, then moved his feet. A few moments later, the finger approximated to the hand, made it draw back, and produced a general agitation. MM. Thillaye and Marc directed their fingers towards several parts of the body, and excited some convulsive motions. Thus, M. Petit was always affected with these convulsive motions, upon the approximation of the fingers, whether he had or had not a bandage upon his eyes; and these motions were more decided when they were directed towards the parts subjected to experiment a piece of metal, such as a key, or the branch of a pair of spectacles.”
What we learn from Dupotet: in some ways it is possible that the patient “feels” the operator in some way which is not fully explainable by ordinary means. Besides Dupotet, there are many similar accounts throughout  history of people realizing similar exploits. Normally the sensation of “feeling” is strongly related to powerful healing results.
A practical hint: In practicing hypnotherapy we must  always remember to imagine that our patient can “feel” us even if we don’t speak.
Dupotet’s Method
Dupotet's method of magnetising was extremely simple, for he did not make contact with the subjects, and attached little importance to fixing their eyes130. 
He knew that in some cases fascination could bring strong results, but he also used other techniques.
He believed that the will was the potent instrument in Magnetism, and that the complicated manipulations which most other magnetisers employed were quite unnecessary if the operator had a strong will, which he had trained to act as he desired. He used the passes freely, however, and considered them to be the mechanical equivalent to the will as directing the magnetic fluid. He noticed that the “emission of the fluid” is not even, and he rested for a few minutes every now and then in order to let his forces recuperate. There is no doubt that Dupotet produced very powerful results by his process, one of which results seems to have been a good deal of difficulty (occasionally), in demagnetising his subject, although the sleep he produced does not appear to have been deeper than that induced by most other magnetisers.
Dupotet’s technique
1. The Magnetiser is completely silent and stands at a certain distance from the Subject, who may be seated, reclining or even standing. 
2. After concentrating his thoughts, establishing mentally “rapport”, and without even establishing manual relation, lifting his hand level with the latter's forehead, he performs passes from above downwards, before his face, chest, and abdomen. 
3. The Operator practices with one hand only, from the head to the umbilicus.  
4. Both hands may, however, be used, one acting from the forehead to the root of the throat, and the other from the chest to the navel. 
5. The effect is increased by extending the fingers of one hand towards the eyes, and the other in the direction of the epigastric region. 
6. On raising the hand, he should, as prescribed by Deleuze, turn his back towards the Subject. 
7. In order to induce deep sleep at the first Operation, he Magnetises the head, by means of long descending passes, or strokes, by the imposition of the hands at the height of the forehead, when a few passes over the legs and knees render the Magnetisation complete.
8. Go to the farthest place of the room and change breathing. Test for change in breathing in your subject.
This last point is very powerful. Removing ourselves from the immediate contact with the person, we create the condition for developing a very powerful sensitivity. This sensitivity translates into an effort of the senses for keeping contact with the person in a way that increases at distance, it becomes more and more mysterious (even if we justify it with the concept of quantum entanglement).
What is most striking is that people react at a distance as if the operator were near them.
Most of the time, when we do this in our seminars, it is also the subjective impression and people say that they hadn’t even noticed the operator distancing himself. They say, that they always thought he was very near to them.


An example of Dupotet’s cure in curing epilepsy
REPORT OF THE CASE OF LUCY CLARK, TREATED BY BARON DUPOTET DE SENNEVOY, AT NO. 20, WIGMORE STREET, CAVENDISH SQUARE. COMMUNICATED BY GEORGE DENTON, ESQ., SURGEON, TOTTENHAM.
Lucy Clark is eighteen years old. In her thirteenth year she was suddenly seized with a fit, for which she could assign no cause. A fortnight afterwards she had a second; in her fourteenth year she had a third; and in her sixteenth year a fourth, when she became so constantly subject to them, that for three months she scarcely passed two days without a fit. During this time many remedies were administered; at last a seton was applied to the neck, and for the four months it was allowed to remain there she had no recurrence of her fits. The seton had scarcely been removed a fortnight when her fits returned. For one month various remedies were tried, which failing, the seton was re-applied, and worn for seventeen months. During this period many plans of treatment were adopted, and the seton was frequently removed, sometimes accidentally, and sometimes intentionally, in order to observe if the fits would return, which they invariably did. She was subject to the fits even while she wore the seton, if it did not discharge.
The last time she had a fit was when the seton was accidentally removed, on the 15th of July last; and on the 16th, after replacing it, I magnetised her. I was so surprised at her susceptibility of the mysterious influence of its effects, that I was led to introduce her, at the North London Hospital, to the Baron Dupotet, whose patient she has continued ever since.
For some time I was constantly present while the Baron magnetised Lucy Clarke, and heard her repeatedly state, long before the 29th of October, that that was the day her seton should be removed, but that the Baron should continue to magnetise her until the 30th of November, and that then her fits would be cured. Accordingly, the seton was removed on the day above stated." In the month of November she received a very severe blow on the head, which she said would protract her cure one month.
The girl has had no fits since the day she was first magnetised, and, until this last month, has taken no medicine. The Baron still magnetises her once a week.
For the blow she received on the head it was found necessary twice to bleed her, which was done, at her own request, during her magnetic state of insensibility.
Reports of other cases treated magnetically in the public hospitals, and also in private practice, are being daily communicated to Baron Dupotet.131

Practical exercise: Some power practices taught by Baron du Potet
The plexuses in magnetism are special zones in the body.
We must recharge them in order to develop ENERGY, and to obtain the results described in the preceding pages.
Du Potet was a person of extreme energy! 
Here are the instructions for recharging some plexuses in accordance with Du Potet’s method 132:
How to recharge the cervical plexus (forehead). 
Place yourselves in a cross-legged position in front of a mirror (A wardrobe mirror would be excellent). You will have drawn beforehand a red point by the exact spot on which the image of the cervical plexus falls. Whilst your eyes are shut, and your whole body is relaxed, breathe slowly and deeply. Open your eyes. Look at the red point which symbolizes the cervical plexus. Let a feeling of emptiness pervade your head. Imagine a source of energy surging within the solar plexus. Two threads spread out from there: One of them follows the spinal column inwardly, whereas the other moves frontally under the thorax, the throat and the face. The said two imaginary threads reach an immaterial point by the cervical plexus. Mentally cover this “itinerary” more than once, for a two minutes period, by climbing up from the front. During such time, keep on staring at the red point. By the stage when you eventually close your eyes, you must imagine yourselves seeing the red point as if from within, the way you would have done had your eyes been located in the cerebellum (the nape). As this part of the exercise is more tiring, do not exceed ten seconds the first times you implement it. After you have repeated it a few times, you will carry it out more capably. Once that subsequent level is reached, you will perceive the point of the cervical plexus with greater intensity. Shortly thereafter you will feel a sensation of heat once more, whereupon you will have to feel that you have managed to accumulate such a strength that, should you wish, the like of a laser beam might flash out from you. The recharging session should not last more than three or four minutes.
Recharging other plexuses: The same system applying to the cervical plexus shall be used. Notice should be taken of the fact that two plexuses, the carotid and cardiac ones, are susceptible of being recharged live in nature. 


Charles Lafontaine and the power of Concentration

How Lafontaine became a magnetizer
Another great magnetiser and propagandist of Magnetism was Charles Lafontaine, born in 1803, and the author of "L'Art de Magnetiser." It is hard to say whether Dupotet – or Lafontaine did the most to keep Animal Magnetism alive after the death or retirement of Mesmer and of his immediate pupils; but they differed not only in their sentiments in regard to Magnetism, but also in their field of operations. 
Dupotet was an idealist, who thought he had reached a knowledge beyond that of other magnetisers, and who relied greatly upon the innate and mysterious power of the will. To cure disease, although a most worthy aim, appeared less important to him than to understand a tremendous and, as yet, almost unknown power or natural force, which seemed to him to be more psychical than physical in its nature and manifestations.
Lafontaine was a whole-hearted believer in the fluid theory, and he accorded to will no other power than that of enabling the magnetiser to project and direct his own magnetic fluid. He expressed all magic and miracle in the terms of the magnetic or vital fluid, and thus he was almost a materialist in Magnetism as compared to Dupotet. 
Again; Dupotet exerted himself principally to convince those who belonged to the superior order in intelligence and education; he spent years in attendance at the hospitals of Paris to magnetise patients there at the request and for the benefit of doctors and men of science. His demonstrations were semi-private, and he relied for the ultimate triumph of Magnetism more upon teaching his pupils than upon the conspicuousness of the cures he made. 
Lafontaine, on the other hand, very soon got disgusted with the treatment he received from the medical world, and appealed to the lay world, to the people themselves, making the cure of disease his principal object, and relying on the results he obtained in that direction as much as on his exhibitions of the strange phenomena for success in his propaganda. 

"In my life I didn't search for the theory of magnetism. I only searched its usefulness and its sanatory aspect" Charles Lafontaine133

Like Dupotet, wherever he went Lafontaine received pupils, and endeavoured to found little societies that would persevere in their studies and healing work after he had gone; and, like Dupotet, he produced clairvoyance at his demonstrations as an evidence of the reality and importance of Magnetism; but all the time his principal object was to try to convince the lay world, the people themselves, that they had in their hands an extraordinary power of curing each others diseases without the use of drugs, if they chose to learn from him the simple and easy means of exercising that power. But, nevertheless, nothing could have been more brutal and irrational than the treatment which Lafontaine at first received from the public; he was undoubtedly for some years in danger of grievous bodily harm when he opened his lectures in new places; and we find that, as with Dupotet, the local medical men were always the leaders, and, as he believed, the instigators of the opposition. It is difficult to understand now the intense hatred which not only the magnetiser but also his subjects incurred sixty or seventy years ago. 
Why the audience should storm the platform on which a lecturer was endeavouring to demonstrate to them that they possessed a power to cure each other's maladies, and should violently assault the lecturer himself, and do cruel and cowardly injuries to his entranced subjects, seems to be explicable only on the hypothesis of epidemic insanity of a certain kind; and it is in itself a curious and Interesting psychical phenomenon. 
But, after a time, Lafontaine in great measure lived down this idiotic opposition; and, even at first, wherever he went it died away after a week or so, for his plan was to remain in each town long enough to make some striking cures among the inhabitants.
 A large number of these cures were of persons in the higher grades of society, who had tried every other means of cure in vain, and when they were cured these people made the virtues and wonders of Magnetism known among their own set, insomuch that it sometimes happened to Lafontaine to have his lecture broken up by an organised band of howling opponents, and the next evening to be the guest of some marquis or duke, and be received with every expression of consideration by a room full of the nobility.
Examples of cures by Lafontaine
Lafontaine worked successfully with magnetism on inflammations, paralysis, epilepsy, fevers, hypertrophies, gastric problems, neural problems and many others.
For example:
Mme X was considered terminally ill by her physicians. She had an illness in her lungs and she was near death. She spit blood. At the end of the first day of treatment she had a violent attack and she spit even more blood. Lafontaine treated her with the magnetic blow and with passes. After a few days of intense magnetic work she felt better and she finally healed completely.

Openess of mind and generosity of Lafontaine
Lafontaine once met a group of Native Americans who were thattravelling to Paris at that time and showed them his way of healing. They found it very interesting. He became friends with them and they told him that they had sent him the plants that they used for healing purposes. After they left they sent him a letter:
Kind Friend,
You have been a brother to us while we were in Paris, and we hope the Great Spirit will let you enjoy many bright and happy days. This is the sincere wish of your friend,
Manguados
"A chippeway chief of North America" 134

 As they travelled throughout Europe they arrived in Brussels and found they had no more money.
When he came to know about this Lafontaine organised a subscription for them at one of his evenings and sent them the money to go back to America. 
Lafontaine’s mindset and the belief in the "fluid"
The theory of Lafontaine is very simple: the nervous fluid is the main agent, even more than the will.
The Will for Lafontaine is “the concentration of the mind on one thing”.
The fluid for him is an internal and universal element.
This mindset is very important for practicing his very powerful method. The more you will think in this way the stronger will be your results.

Lafontaine's belief in the existence of a fluid led him to make some very interesting experiments with regard to the action of this fluid upon inanimate objects, and nothing shows the empire which prejudice wields over our theories more than the fact objects are influenced by the "passes" has hitherto been carefully ignored by men of science. He suspended a bar of copper, about six inches long and as thick as a knitting needle, by a delicate thread in a large glass vase, the top of which was hermetically sealed, and this bar he caused to turn one way or other by making a few passes in front of the glass. 
This apparatus stood permanently in his room, and all his pupils could act similarly on the copper bar, and there does not seem to be any reason why the experiment should not be repeated at any time. Another experiment which he tried frequently at his lectures and demonstrations was to put the somnambule in a scale, exactly balanced, and standing over her, to attract her by magnetic passes, so that the tray of the scales in which she sat rose and the other fell, the magnetiser's hands being held several inches above her head. This experiment was always made in full view, and it is as "scientific" in character as any experiment in ordinary physics, but it has remained as much ignored by men of science as it was when Lafontaine was showing it in the various towns he visited. 
Lafontaine magnetises the lions in the Zoo
Lafontaine was in England in 1840 and 1841, and created a sensation, according to the Times and other newspapers of that day, by magnetising a lion in the Zoological Gardens, London, a performance which he repeated in some other English cities. It seems a pity that Braid was not present on one of these occasions.
This experience was repeated in the 1900s by Henry Durville in Paris as we will see later on.
The gaze is in fact a main element for taming animals and every person who works with wild animals can confirm how very powerful it is. 
Other experiences with animals of Lafontaine
The case in London wasn’t the only one of its kind. Lafontaine worked repeatedly using magnetism with many animals.
In Paris, at a public stance on January 20th, 1843, in the presence of 1,500 persons, he put a dog to sleep. He did this public demonstration using passes. He held it with one hand and did passes with the other, as if performing on a human, willing him to sleep. He put the dog in such a completely lethargic sleep that it didn't even wake up upon the sound of a revolver.
The first experience that Lafontaine performed on lions was in Tours in 1840, where he began to stare at a lion in a fair (the lion was in a cage). He says: "I said nothing to anybody. I placed myself near the cage and I fixated my eyes on the lion's eyes. After a while it couldn't sustain my gaze anymore and its eyes closed down. At this point I began doing passes from far away and I obtained a deep slumber in 20 minutes.
At this point I dared to touch its leg, which was near the edge of the cage. As it didn't react I picked at it but it still didn't react, so I put my whole arm inside the cage and touched the head and the mouth. I put my hand there.
All those present were astonished.
        Afterwards I touched its nose again.
I then woke it up. The lion opened its eyes and again regained its fearful appearance.
Lafontaine worked with this lion in Tours many times, and then again in Nantes obtaining much repeated success. 
He couldn't work in the same way with a hyena because as soon as it saw Lafontaine’s gaze, it attempted to attack him. He worked very well on many cats. In Belfast a cat was mounted on the table where he was drinking tea and he put it to sleep with a few passes.135
Lafontaine’s experiences with cats, lizards, and a squirrel are very curious. Why have they not been repeated? The reason is because the theories of a mesmeric fluid have been put aside and replaced by those of hypnotism and suggestion. These theories are valid, but they fail to account for the entirety of magnetic practices.
We have personally done exercises on different animals and have seen very interesting results.
Animals react to passes and can even be healed through their use.
A strange experience 
Lafontaine wanted to demonstrate the higher phenomena of magnetism. 
Lafontaine's plan therefore was often to produce before his audience two or more subjects whom he had completely under his control through previously having repeatedly magnetised them, and thus fully developed their magnetic susceptibilities. With one of these subjects he demonstrated the physical phenomena, such as insensibility, catalepsy, attraction, and so on; with another he demonstrated thought reading and clairvoyance. Occasionally he was called upon by his audience to demonstrate his science upon someone in the body of the hall, and as this was almost always a person who was well known locally, he never refused to do it if he believed that the volunteer was at all a likely subject. 
Being a very powerful magnetiser, his successes in this way were frequent, and although the process of magnetising someone for the first time, especially under such conditions, was calculated to severely exercise the patience of his audience, he attributed much of his popularity to his successes in these cases.  He seems to have had little difficulty, wherever he went, in finding and developing excellent clairvoyants, and this he preferred to taking subjects round with him, for in the latter case he found that there was always a suspicion of connivance and trickery. 
He relates some curious experiences, which he explains always by the fluid theory, one at least of which experiences seems to be inexplicable on any other hypothesis. He says, in his "Memoires d'un Magnetiseur":
"One day, in my absence, Clarisse, (one of his subjects) took it into her head to magnetise another young woman who had never been magnetised. The girl was soon in a deep sleep, but when Clarisse proceeded to de-magnetise her a curious phenomena happened: Clarisse herself fell into the magnetic sleep, as if all the fluid which she had communicated to the subject had passed over into her. It was now the turn of the other to awaken Clarisse, which she succeeded in doing, but the moment Clarisse awoke she herself again fell asleep; Clarisse awoke the girl a second time, but immediately fell asleep again herself, and this time, to the alarm of the spectators, her sleep was accompanied by convulsive movements, which soon became a violent nervous attack. They sent for me in haste, and when I arrived the other girl, who was much frightened, was becoming similarly attacked. "
An interesting seance
Lafontaine in his "Memoires" gives an account of a seance the like of which never occurred again in his experience, and which puzzled him not a little. He announced to the audience that his clairvoyante had disappointed him, and they expressed themselves satisfied if he operated only upon his other subjects for physical effects. He thereupon put his three somnambules to sleep, but had to awaken two of them, as they exhibited unlooked-for phenomena of attraction. For when he paralysed their legs to prevent them from coming to him, they slid off their chairs and rolled over to his feet. Presently a lady in the body of the hall went into a trance, and her body grew stiffly cataleptic. Hardly had he brought her to, when a gentleman sitting near fell into the same state. He took the gentleman out of his trance, and got both these strangers to go on the platform, and to allow him to experiment with them; but very soon two more of the audience became entranced, and while he was attending to them four more followed suit; and then others were "taken," and as quickly as he awoke one, another fell asleep and stiffened. Then extraordinary phenomena of attraction occurred, the subjects being drawn, towards him against their will, and in spite of the efforts of those near them to prevent it. He dismissed his own subjects; and the audience, in a state of great excitement and amusement, left their seats, and crowded up in disorder to get a good view of the strange proceedings. As each of the stricken ones was brought to, Lafontaine had him or her conveyed out of the hall, but it was two o'clock in the morning before he left the hall himself; and when he did so, he was thoroughly exhausted, and on reaching his hotel he fainted for the first and only time in his life. These epidemic phenomena were common with Sunderland, as we shall see, but he had them perfectly under control.
In some places Lafontaine speaks of the insults and indignities to which he had to submit, always apparently at the instigation of either the doctors or the priests, for with few exceptions the priests attributed his doings to the help of the "Old Gentleman" himself. When the police gave him notice to leave Naples, the Count de Reyneval, the French Ambassador, a warm friend of Magnetism and of Lafontaine himself, applied to King Ferdinand, who gave permission in writing for him to remain, his words being: “I consent that Mons. Lafontaine remains in Naples, on condition that he makes no more blind people to see nor deaf ones to hear." The reason of this strangely-worded document was that Lafontaine was very successful in curing cases of blindness and deafness, and the priests had declared to the King that this was a blasphemous imitation of the miracles of Christ. Good old Pius IX was much more sensible; he received Lafontaine in audience, at the request of the Count de Reyneval, and chatted with him for twenty minutes, showing much curiosity and interest. 
The interview with Pius IX
Lafontaine describes his audience with Pius IX in his "Memoires," and there is no reason at all to doubt its truthfulness. It was published at the time and was never questioned, as it certainly would have been had it not been accurate, for it contains an expression of opinion by the Pope about Animal Magnetism which Lafontaine's enemies would have been very glad to have stigmatised as a fabrication. Lafontaine says:-
"I was introduced by the Cardinal Borromeo, who was good enough to tell me the ceremonial, which consisted in a genuflection on entering the room, and another when near the Pope, who offered his hand to the visitor in order that he might raise it and kiss his ring.
"The first word which his Holiness said to me was the enquiry whether I belonged to the same family as the good Lafontaine the Fabulist, and when I told him that I did he seemed much pleased. I presented him with a copy of my ‘Art de Magnetiser,' bound in velvet, with the pontifical arms. He opened it.
" ‘About Magnetism!' he said, ‘Oh, Mons. Lafontaine, it is a weapon which may become very dangerous. I do not deny, I make no pretence of denying Magnetism: it is a natural effect, a physical effect, which has a purely natural cause, but I doubt its utility.'
" ‘If your Holiness will permit me to say so, that depends upon the point of view from which you regard it. If it is looked upon as a means auxiliary to medicine and surgery, it may be of great utility. If, on the other hand, it is its marvellous side that is thought much of, it may be dangerous, like everything else, for there is nothing in the world that has not its bad side; even religion itself
" ‘Oh, chut!" said his Holiness, ‘I do not say that Magnetism may have no utility, only I doubt it, especially as a curative agent; but it is a natural effect, like electricity, which enters entirely into the order of physical nature.'"
Then, in reply to the Pope's questions, Lafontaine explained at some length the character of his processes and the nature of the cures he made: and in dismissing him, the Pope said, "Well, Mons. Lafontaine, let us wish and hope that, for the good of humanity, Magnetism may soon be generally employed."
Notwithstanding the insults and indignities he had to put up with, especially at the commencement of his public life as a magnetiser, Lafontaine says in his "Memoires":--
"In all the countries which I have visited, in every town where I have stopped, I have, generally speaking, received a kindly welcome, not only from the people but also from the authorities. It is true that I have met difficulties here and there, but I have always overcome them by asking only for that which I believed had a right to demand."
His personality
Lafontaine was a man of middle height, inclined to be stout, with a kind and somewhat serious face. When he magnetised he looked like personified concentration. It was often remarked that when a person on being introduced to Lafontaine had talked with him for a little while, he felt as if he had known him for ever so long, which feeling of "old acquaintance" shows that he had an eminently sympathetic nature. 
Lafontaine authored some books: “l’Art de Magnetiser” and “Mémoires”. He was also director of the review “Journal du Magnétisme Animal”.
Lafontaine’s method
The following is Lafontaine's method of magnetising. It is simpler than most other methods, but requires more patience and sustained attention. On the other hand, it produces a far deeper magnetic state, and it is the best method for producing clairvoyance in a subject. I may remark that Lafontaine recognised complete insensibility to sensations as the sign of the true magnetic sleep, he said that most magnetisers only half magnetise their subjects, and then complain that they never get this or that result. I take this description out of the fifth edition of  "L'Art de Magnetiser":-
"Before commencing the operation, you should ask those present to be seated and to remain silent; for it is essential that during the operation the attention both of the magnetiser and of the magnetised should not be disturbed and that the former should observe in his subject all the sensations which may be expressed in his countenance. In commencing, the operator should concentrate all his energies in one idea -that of acting on his subject.
"The subject and the magnetiser should sit face to face, the knees of the subject between those of the magnetiser, but not touching them; and the magnetiser seated on a somewhat higher seat, so that he may reach the subject's head without fatigue. He should then touch the ends of the subject's thumbs with the ends of his own, without pressing them136: the contact of the thumbs will put the brains of the magnetiser in direct rapport with that of the subject; the nerves of the latter, forming a prolongation of the nerves of the magnetiser, serve to conduct the fluid, and make complete the invasion by it of the subject's nervous system.
" The magnetiser should then fix his eyes on those of his subject, who, on his part, should do all he can to look at his. He should do it for some time. It is probable that during this time the pupils of the subject's eyes will contract and dilate inordinately, and his eyelids fall, not to rise again, not- withstanding his efforts.
"After the shutting of the eyes the magnetiser should continue to hold the subject's thumbs until the eyes cease to roll under the eyelids, and deglutition no longer takes place; then he can let go the thumbs, and, drawing back a little and closing his hands, he should raise them on each side of the subject until they are over the subject's head, and, opening them, he should hold them there for ten or fifteen seconds: then he should bring them down slowly past the subject's ears and along his arms to the ends of the fingers. He should make eight or ten of these passes, each of which should take nearly a minute.
"Then, raising his hands above the subject's head, he should bring them down before the subject's face, chest and body, stopping from time to time at the epigastrium, and pointing the fingers at it. This he must continue for half an hour, or an hour.
"These motions should be made without touching the subject at a few inches distance. Each time the magnetiser raises his hands they should be closed. He should raise them gently, at the side and not in front of the subject, in order not to produce a come and go effect in the circulation of the fluid, which would produce a congestion if done in front of the subject. The magnetiser should also make some passes by raising his hands above the back of the head, and bringing them down behind the ears and shoulders, and out along the arms.
"From the beginning to the end of the operation the operator should occupy himself only with what he is doing, in order, by the concentration of His will', to cause an emission of the "fluid, and to transmit it to the subject.
"The operator will recognise the magnetic sleep by the corpse-like impassivity of the subject's face, and the total absence of deglutition.
"After having operated in this way for a certain time, the magnetiser may ask the subject questions. If he is merely in a torpid state, or in natural sleep, he will wake up. In that case, the operation should cease, and the subject be strongly de-magnetised, for, although not put to sleep, the subject may have been so invaded by the fluid as not to be able to open his eyes.
"But if the subject is in the magnetic sleep, a deep sleep which no noise, and no sensation can bring him out of, he will not reply. If the magnetiser is not too tired, he should continue to magnetise him, in order to produce somnambulism, otherwise he should awaken him.
"But if the subject has passed through the magnetic sleep, and has arrived at the state of somnambulism, he will hear the magnetiser when he speaks to him, and can reply. The magnetiser may then continue his questions for a few moments, for he must not tire the subject the first time; and then he should awaken him.
"When the magnetiser wishes to awaken the subject, he should make some passes from the shoulders to the feet, in order to free the head by drawing down the fluid. Then, putting some muscular force into the act, he must make long passes before his subject's eyes and face, bringing his hands down the sides, until he gives signs of coming to himself. The subject should then be awake, but not yet in his normal state. The magnetiser should then blow cold on his eyes and pass his fingers along his eyebrows in order to free the eyes. This process must be continued or repeated until the subject is completely de-magnetised. The magnetiser may also make transverse passes over the stomach. The subject should be completely de-magnetised, or headache and heaviness in the limbs may follow later in the day." 
Lafontaine follows these instructions with some hints about what to do in case of slight inconveniences, such as the subject during the process becoming unable to breathe, or getting blood to the head, or becoming convulsed, the remedy for which little difficulties consist either in slight pressure on the solar plexus, quick sharp transverse de-magnetising passes, or long slow downward calming passes. In case of non-awakening when de-magnetised, the operator should rest, put his hands in cold water for a few minutes, and then dry them, and begin again. Some subjects are difficult to awake, and the operator must not be alarmed, but must keep on de-magnetising. Lafontaine ends his instructions thus:-
"Whether all goes right or not, the magnetiser must remain cool, collected, and confident, He loses his power if he becomes confused or frightened."

Working with this method in our classes we have seen that at a certain moment the magnetizer and the subject become as one person. The breathing rate synchronizes without doing anything purposely. A profound feeling of calm comes about.

 
The drawing above reports an example of one of the experiments of Lafontaine. It is a particular state of catalepsy. This state can be induced in most people in less than five minutes, by using the non verbal techniques of the gaze and of the passes.
What we can learn from Lafontaine: If you want to learn how to magnetize, Lafontaine’s method is very simple. All you need to do is reinforce your gaze. You can do it by looking at a mirror. Don’t worry if complete somnambulism occurs at the beginning. Lafontaine’s method can also be very useful for helping someone to relax or to prepare him/her for “magnetic therapy”.
A quantum interpretation of the usefulness of the method of Lafontaine is that we “entangle” with the subject as we perform a magnetic induction. From this point on we can proceed in creating change.
Table with the illnesses healed or improved thanks to Charles Lafontaine during his staying in England
Charles Lafontaine had a very high success rate in his practice. Here is a table with the cases he treated while he wrote his book “L’art de magnetiser” and travelled through England. 
His memories offer us a very detailed account of the experiences he had, the people he met, and what was done each day.
His success rate (complete healings and/or improvement) is more than 80%. It is consistent with analogous researches done scientifically in the twentieth century on healers that used similar methods.137 
DO YOU WANT TO LEAVE THIS CHART IN THE FRENCH ? 


Treated

Healed or Improved
84
Surdes et muets
67
22
Sourdités
16
19
Cécités
15
41
Paralysies
35
7
Contractures de membres
6
1
Mouvement convulsif continu
1
15
Douleurs rhumatismales
13
20
Épilepsies
16
22
Hystéries
21
3
Chorées ou danses de Saint-Guy. 
3
35
Crises nerveuses
35
7
Névralgie
5
5
Vomissememnt chroniques
4
2
Vomissements de sang
2
11
Toux nerveuses
8
10
Fièvres intermittentes
7
1
Fièvre scarlatine
1
7
Fièvres cérébrales
5
1
Fièvre typhoïde
1
11
Fièvres nerveuses
11
7
Inflammations de matrice
6
12
Suppressions
10
12
Hémorrhagies
11
5
Palpitations de cœur
5
1
Vertiges
1
7
Chloroses ou pâles couleurs
7
1
Contusion au sein
1
6
Endorses
5
3
Ankyloses
1
3
Prolapsus
2
2
Bégaiment
2
1
Enflures de tout le corps
1
4
Ulcéres
3
9
Brulures
7
14
Douleurs de dents
13
38
Migraines
35
9
Imsomnies
2
7
Gastrites
2
2
Hypocondries
2
7
Dartres
5
7
Idiotismes 
2
3
Hypertrophie au Coeur
2
5
Maladies sans noms
5
4
Inflammations d’intestin
3
1
Courbature
1
2
Cancers (douleur de)
2
3
Engorgement de synovia
3
3
Apoplexies
3
6
Acces de Folie
6

The importance of Entanglement in magnetic Therapy
Lafontaine’s method and his strong successes lead us to consider the concept of entanglement between operator and subject.
This entanglement, when using the gaze, becomes extraordinarily strong. The gaze was central in the work he did.















The development of higher phenomena
It is well known that the early mesmerists constantly and habitually developed telepathic powers in their subjects. Causing their subjects to obey mental orders was a common platform experiment at the time of Lafontaine138. 
These experiments were also often made, under test conditions, by the most careful and conscientious scientists, and the results are recorded in the many volumes on the subject written at the time. Many of these works were written by scientists whose methods of investigation were painstaking and accurate to the last degree. We cannot read the works of the old mesmerists without having the conviction forced upon us, that telepathy was developed by their experiments to a degree almost unknown at the present day. 

Why it is that the power to develop that phenomenon by mesmerists has been lost or has fallen into desuetude in many parts of modern hypnosis, is a question of the gravest scientific interest and importance. The hostility and ridicule of the academicians undoubtedly had its effect on many minds, and caused many scientific investigators to shrink from publicly avowing their convictions or the results of their investigations. But that does not account for the fact that mesmerists, who believe in the verity of the phenomena, are rarely able to produce it at the present day. 

The first question which presents itself is one of dates. When did the higher phenomena show the first signs of decadence? A moment's reflection will fix it at or about the date of the promulgation of the theories of Dr. Braid, who copied some of   Lafontaine’s processes, but modified them, having the subject looking at a bright spot.
It is a historic fact, well known to all who have watched the progress of hypnotic science, that as soon as it was found that the mesmeric or hypnotic sleep could be induced by causing the subject to gaze upon a bright object held before his eyes, the approach of Lafontaine was practically abandoned in the academic world as there has always  been in this environment a strong tendency to remove every influence of the observer. 
Furthermore, as the duration of the proceeding is strictly connected to the capacity of the operator of having strong vitality and concentration, and many people don’t practice exercises to enhance vitality, it was much easier to hold an object before the subject's eyes for a few minutes, with the mind at rest, than to make passes over him for an indefinite length of time, accompanying the passes by fixity of gaze and intense concentration of mind. 
The important point to bear in mind right here is the fact that in the old mesmeric method, fixity of gaze and concentration of will on the part of the operator, were considered indispensable to success. 
In addition, exercises to enhance vitality, concentration and strength of the gaze were widely practiced.
We can think that that the gaze is of foremost importance in order to entangle with the subject and to produce phenomena of a higher order.
It seems clear, then, that it is to this change of methods that we must look for an explanation of the change in results and the drop in phenomena of a higher order. 
That being conceded, we must inquire how the conditions were changed by the change of methods. What effects, if any, either in the condition of the subject or of the operator, or in both, are missing when the new methods are applied? 
It is now necessary to recall to mind the fact (1) that Braid said that suggestion is not a necessary factor in the induction of the hypnotic state and therefore he even removed the importance of the will factor; and (2) that steadily gazing upon an object will induce the condition in a more or less marked degree, whether the subject is expecting the result or not. 
It is sure that intense gazing upon an object, accompanied by concentration of mind, will displace the threshold of consciousness to a greater or less extent, depending upon the mental characteristics of the individual and the circumstances surrounding him. Recent studies have also shown a change in the EEG.

The subjective or inner mind is therefore released, or elevated above the threshold of consciousness, and performs its functions independently of, or synchronously with, the objective mind, just in proportion to the degree of hypnosis induced. It may be only in a slight degree, it may be imperceptible to those surrounding him, or it may reach a state of complete hypnosis, as in the cases mentioned by Braid; but certain it is that the subjective powers will be evoked in exact proportion to the degree of causation. 
  In Braid’s cases it is only the subject who puts his mind in this state, while when a mesmerist employs the old methods of inducing the subjective state, — passes, fixed gazing, and mental concentration, — he hypnotizes (changes mental state) himself by the same act by which he mesmerizes the subject. 

The far-reaching significance of this fact will be instantly apparent to those who are aware that telepathy is the normal means of communication from one unconscious non- rational mind to another unconscious non- rational  mind, and that it is only between unconscious non- rational minds that telepathy can be employed. The conscious rational mind has no part or lot in telepathy until the threshold of consciousness is displaced so as to enable the objective mind to take cognizance of the message. It will be understood, therefore, that when the subject is mesmerized, and all his objective senses are in complete abeyance, and the operator with whom he is in rapport is in a partially subjective state, the conditions exist which render possible the exhibition of powers that could be said “telepathic”.
In quantistic terms we could say that some sort of entanglement becomes possible.
It is two minds of two human beings working together with the idea of healing in one of them. This idea can also be felt in the other mind139.
In fact what we observe in our experiments is that the mere idea of healing, the mere sense of vitality has an effect on the other person.

The English School.
THE ENGLISH SCHOOL. - Elliotson: His independent character-His high professional standing-His treatment by his medical brethren - Phrenology - The Will - How he anticipated Modern Hypnotism.
Esdaile: His wonderful success in India--His first experience, and what it taught him-Opposition and triumph - His method of mesmerising – Mental phenomena-The "mesmeric disease"—He thought that Mesmerism should be known to everyone-Its benefit in therapeutics-Its efficiency in insanity-Esdaile's broadness of view-His belief in the "fluid"    Mesmerism known to the Faquirs of India

The phisician J.B. De Mainaduc (died 1797) having received his medical training in England, moved to Paris in 1782 and while there learned animal magnetism from D'Eslon.
In the year 1788 he delivered a course of lectures on animal magnetism at Bristol, and afterwards in London. 
He also treated magnetically, and with considerable success, a great number of cases, an account of which, with certificates from the patients themselves, he afterwards published in a pamphlet entitled "Veritas," which bears the appropriate motto, "Causa latet, vis est notissima."140 His lectures excited very considerable sensation in scientific and literary circles; and, as might be expected, a number of magnetic practitioners, in imitation of him, soon entered the field of competition. We are informed by Dr. George Winter, that a person named Holloway, by giving lectures on animal magnetism at five guineas for each pupil, realised a considerable fortune; and the house of Mr. Loughborough, another magnetic professor, at Hammersmith, about the year 1790, was daily for many months crowded with patients. "In the year 1790," says Dr. George Winter, "I deem animal magnetism to have been at its height; it was credibly reported that 3000 persons have attended at one time to get admission to Mr. Loughborough's, at Hammersmith, and that some persons sold their tickets for from one to three guineas each."
But, notwithstanding all this, while animal magnetism was making rapid progress in Germany and France, it does not appear to have made the same advancement in England; on the contrary, the fanatical interpretation which Mrs. Pratt put on the cures of Loughborough, could not fail to have disgusted many who might otherwise have been interested in the facts themselves, which were very clearly and unequivocally established.
Despite persistent popular interest, it took a long time for the intellectual establishment of England to give serious attention to animal magnetism. That began when Richard Chevenix gave lectures and demonstrations in London in 1829.
One of those who attended was the physician John Elliotson (1791-1868), soon to become professor of medicine at University College and president of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society141.
When, in 1837, the famous French magnetizer Baron Du Potet came to London, Elliotson was further intrigued and decided to experiment with mesmerism.142
The English mesmerisers from 1840 to 1860 are a group that may be said to constitute a British School of Animal Magnetism, the key note of which may be found in the following paragraph of an article by Dr. Esdaile in the "Zoist":-
"Wonderful to say, this greatly desiderated and almost unhoped for curative agent not only exists in Nature, but is an essential element in the human constitution, varying in different persons, of course, like all other bodily and mental gifts; and most persons possess the power of curing others, or of being themselves cured occasionally, by an inherent sanative influence propagatable between different individuals: for health is transmissible as well as disease, it appears."
The same note was struck by Mr. Barham, meeting at Bristol in the Forties, the Earl of Dude in the chair, when he said:-
"The great majority of those who have carefully investigated the subject have come to the conclusion that there exists in man, as one of his constituent principles, a certain subtle element, known by the names of animal electricity, animal magnetism, galvanism, the nervous energy, the nervous fluid, etc. This element occupies a sort of intermediate position between soul and body, and it is by means of this animal electricity that our mental will acts upon our bodily organs."
During those and the following years many excellent treatises on Mesmerism were published in this country, and other works on the subject were translated from French and German; Ashburner, Barth143, Townshend, Colquhoun, Gregory144, Sandby, Gregory and some others, have left us works on Mesmerism of great interest and value, which anyone who wishes to understand the subject in its different bearings, or to become a practical mesmeriser, should still study. 
Townshend145 was a former skeptic that became passionate about animal magnetism.
Colquhon wrote “Isis Revelata”, a book that was translated in many languages.146 Isis Revelata was one the few treatises written in English which attempted to give a far-reaching exposition of the historical and philosophical context of animal magnetism. As such it furnished a strong impetus to the establishment in England of animal magnetism as a subject worthy of serious consideration.
Georges Sandby was a clergyman and his book “Mesmerism and Its Opponents: with a Narrative of Cases.” was very influential in helping to create a favorable opinion of animal magnetism in Britain.
These men took a view of the nature and possibilities of Mesmerism which seems like a prophetic protest against the skin-deep theories and half-baked practices of many of our modern hypnotists. It is impossible, however, for me to do more than briefly notice the ideas and labours of two mesmerisers of that period who stand head and shoulders above all their contemporaries, namely, Dr. Elliotson and Mr. Esdaille.


Elliotson.
Elliotson: His independent character
No name has been more familiar to the English mesmerist, and none more authoritative, than that of Dr. Elliotson; yet Dr. Elliotson never put his name to any work on the subject, for when pressed to write a book about Mesmerism, as he continually was by mesmerisers and publishers, he always replied that, notwithstanding his many years of experience, be felt that he still knew too little of the subject to warrant him in speaking authoritatively. 

But although he never wrote a book on Mesmerism, the 13 volumes of the "Zoist,"147 a monthly magazine which he founded in 1843 and edited to the end, and to which he was himself a constant contributor, perhaps gives us a better idea of his labours and ideas, and more actual instruction than had he left a work on Mesmerism in several volumes. 
John Elliotson was the personal physician of Charles Dickens, William Thackeray and Harriet Martineau148.
This latter continued with him in 1844 a mesmeric cure that she had already begun with the magnetist Spencer T. Hall, and in a few months she got better. The following year she published her “Letters on Mesmerism”. The treatment that Harriet Martineau did was object of curiosity by Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Charlotte Brontë, and this latter did some experimentation on herself and wrote on this subject to her sister Emily in 1851.
His high professional standing
Dr. Elliotson was recognised as the first physician of the day, and his lectures were regularly reported in the "Lancet," and besides enjoying the highest reputation both in and out of his profession, he had a very large and lucrative practice. 
It was chiefly, through Elliotson’s endeavours that University College Hospital was founded, and he naturally became the head of it, and perhaps he took more interest in it, and thought he had a firmer footing there, than is usually the case with the Senior Physician of an Hospital. He was of a singularly independent and original disposition, delighting in experiments and in new ideas, insomuch that people called him eccentric. It is recorded that he broke through the old rules and conventions of his profession by being the first doctor to discard knee-breeches, and the first to cultivate a beard. 
He horrified his fellow physicians at University College Hospital by experimenting with enormous doses of poisonous drugs, and scandalized them by using a stethescope, against which the whole profession at first set their faces (instead of their ears): and he was not only the first to exhibit and practise auscultation, but he also gave the first impulse to clinical instruction, until then almost entirely unknown in England. He founded the Phrenological Society, and was its first President: and it was some experiments in phreno-magnetism which he witnessed that first drew his attention to Mesmerism. He "took up" Mesmerism with his usual enthusiasm and fearlessness, and not only held séances at his own house, but experimented freely with it at his Hospital. 
His treatment by his medical brethren
This was too much for his colleagues: to poison his patients through too much zeal was all very well, but to run the risk of curing them in so unorthodox a manner was quite too much for them: so they persuaded the governors of the Hospital to issue a prohibition of Mesmerism in the wards, and in consequence Dr. Elliotson sent in his resignation, which took effect in December, 1838. The immediate cause of the injunction by the Governors was Elliotson's famous Harvean Oration in that year, an Oration which, by its defence of Mesmerism, gave great offence to older members of the Faculty, but which was warmly applauded by all who were present at its delivery.149 It was not until 1849 that he founded 'the Mesmeric Hospital in London, an institution which for many years kept the flag flying, if it did not do much else.
Dr. Elliotson, however, used Mesmerism in his private practice only when the patient desired it, or when he considered that no other method was capable of giving relief; and although the advocacy of Mesmerism very considerably lessened his practice, it by no means destroyed it; and he continued to be largely employed in consultations. Dr. Elliotson had the gift of making warm friends, as well as bitter enemies; and among the former were Dickens and Thackeray, both of whom allude to him in their writings. He died of decline in 1868.
Phrenology
As a mesmerist, Dr. Elliotson was remarkable for his determined advocacy of phreno-mesmerism, and for his denial that Will entered into the production of the mesmeric phenomena. 
The mesmerisers who experimented seriously with phreno-mesmerism recognised as a fact that pressing or pointing to different parts of the cranium causes in the subject different emotions, or tendencies, or impulses; that these are constant for the same cranial locality excited; and that, in the main, the functions of the brain thus indicated correspond with the phrenological division of the head made by Gall.150 
But the explanations given for these facts differ according to the physical and psychological theories of the observers. The stock argument of those who deny the truth of phreno-magnetism is that you can establish "organs" anywhere by the simple process of Suggestion; in a couple of sittings you can fix the organ of Destruction in the elbow, the organ of Caution in the big toe, the organ of Tune in the little finger, and so on. Elliotson saw that not only the recognised phrenological organs might be thus parodied, but that by Suggestion, or "mesmeric education," you might establish in different parts of the body organs for waltzing, whist-plying, or anything else you liked; but he was shrewd enough to see that the establishment of organs by arbitrary association in this way does not prove that there are no natural divisions of function in the substance of the brain, which act normally when they are not perturbed or overpowered by Suggestion; and he warns those who experiment in phreno-mesmerism to be very careful to avoid Suggestion in their experiments. As to the will, he said:
"All my most experienced friends, however mighty they acknowledge the power of the will to be, are satisfied that every effect may be produced without willing in addition to the mesmeric means of manipulation, contact, fixedness of look, etc."16
The Will
Elliotson found that151 the curative effect was always proportional to the attention he gave to what he was doing, and that even looking away from his subject caused the passes to have very little effect. He does not seem to have perceived that the manipulations are means which carry volition in themselves, if made with the attention and purpose, which, he says in many places, are necessary to produce an effect-that, in fact, concentrated attention and purpose in combination make the strongest kind of will-and he does not appear to have suspected that he himself, every time he mesmerised, exercised his will without knowing it. In later years, he thought that the phenomena could be produced in three ways-
by Magnetism; 
by imagination; 
and by will power; 
but he believed that he operated not by will power or by imagination, but by Magnetism, that is to say, by some intrinsic virtue in the manipulations.
His division is nevertheless interesting if we think that magnetism is some sort of quantistic entanglement between two people. What Elliotson meant by “operating through magnetism” means “to entangle with the subject and have him heal without putting voluntary effort, but helping him to recover naturally his new state”.
What we can learn from Elliotson: normal hypnotists   work only with imagination. Ellliotson cited two other forces (willpower and magnetism) that make our practice more efficient. As we work with a client, we must strive to  not only work on his/her psychology, but also to project in him/her the desired result.
 When Elliotson says to produce phenomena by imagination we see instead that he was an able reasoner and thinker, and in some points he anticipated the ideas of present hypnotists. 
How he anticipated Modern Concepts of hypnotism.
Dr. Elliotson also held some concepts which are very near to the idea of "sub-conscious personality." He says:--
"No point in cerebral physiology is more curious than our unconscious reception of sensations, or unconscious prevention of consciousness of them, and the influence of unconscious knowledge and feelings over our actions."
He thought that the brain can receive external impressions, and act on them quite unconsciously. He adduces the fact that knowledge acquired in the mesmeric sleep, and not remembered on waking, will determine thoughts and actions. 
It was the complete materialism which Dr. Elliotson affected at that time (he changed his opinions in the years that followed) that made it impossible for him to see, as we now do, many things in Mesmerism in which the action of mind is involved152 He was a thorough believer in the power of Suggestion. He tried the experiment of giving bread pills, telling the patients that they were opium, calomel, etc., and he found they produced the effects of the drug named. He ascribes this unusual action of those drugs to imagination; but does not say if he tried the same experiment without letting the patients know what effect to expect; upon which circumstance it seems to depend whether the result is auto-suggestion, mental suggestion by the operator, or a "virtue" actually put into the suppositions drugs. Again; he had one patient who fell asleep from "mere imagination." He told her he would magnetise her from the next room; but instead of doing so, he walked about, and tried not to think of her, but she fell into the mesmeric sleep. Still again; he says that many things once thought part of the mesmeric state seem to be the result of habit, and can be removed by habit -- such as susceptibility to cross mesmerism; “habit" is evidently used here for what is now called "hypnotic education." It is well known that subjects are affected in different ways when magnetised, and Elliotson attributed these differences chiefly to the subject.
An important fact is that he recognised that different magnetisers affect the same subject differently, there being, as he believed, latent sympathies and antipathies between individuals, which operate strongly in mesmerism, making the action of some magnetisers powerful, pleasant and curative for a given person, the action of other magnetisers weak, and sometimes even unpleasant and hurtful to them. Few of our present hypnotists recognise this fact that in reality is very important as it shows that hypnosis  always merges with something else that cannot be fully described in classical psychological terms. Sympathy and anthypathy are in fact about   the entanglement we create with the other person.
Many people will, no doubt, sympathise with Dr. Elliotson when he moralises thus:
"It is surprising how many persons in the world have no force of character: are only big children-holding silly opinions on various subjects of which they know nothing, and acting without reason." 
On one occasion Dr. Elliotson bandaged the eyes of a patient, telling her that she was being mesmerised, but himself doing nothing, and no effect was produced; then, her eyes still being bandaged, when she thought he was not trying to affect her he sent her to sleep by passes. That was in accordance with his theory, for he attributed the phenomena wholly to the "manipulations"; but another experiment, made soon after, puzzled him. A hat was held before a mesmerised subject's face, so that he could not see what was being done. Then, says the doctor, "I stood at his feet, and said aloud that I would draw up his legs. I did nothing, and yet his legs soon began to move, and at last rose to a level with his body. I then said nothing, but endeavoured to draw up his left arm by passes, but no effect ensued." Another clear case of Suggestion he interprets in a way well calculated to take him off the scent of a true explanation: He mesmerised a young man one day, who, "in the first stage of sleep-waking," mistook him for a girl, and they had a walk (imaginary) together. The doctor says:-
"I told him I had something very nice for him, and put some wormwood into his mouth, which he chewed with great apparent relish, saying, in reply to my question what it was, that he thought it was sweet cake. Such is the force of feeling in sleep-waking. Because he mistook me for someone whom he liked very much, he fancied that what I gave him must he excellent. This is a fine illustration of the working of a prejudice upon our judgment in a waking state."
Some of Dr. Elliotson's experiences, recorded in the "Zoist," should interest the Suggestionist. For instance, the experiment he thus describes:-
"I attempted to draw up her (the patient's) arms and head by tractive movements, but failed. But I discovered that if I said aloud they would move, they did. If I desired her to raise her arms or move her head, no effect followed; but if I said the thing would take place, it did. There was no attempt at trick in this. She frankly allowed that she heard me say the thing would take place; and I believe she was compelled to do it (as she said she was); though why a command or request had no such effect is remarkable. When asked why her arm moved when she was told it would she said that she did not know that she heard what was said, and that she knew her arm went up-she could not help it-and when it was up she could not put it down again: but when I said it would go down, it did."
Here, again, is an instance from the "Zoist" of "post-hypnotic suggestion". Mr. T. W. Brindley, relating an experience with a magnetized subject, says:-
"Before de-magnetising her, I requested her in five minutes' time to get up off her chair and blow out all the candles in the room. After restoring her, at the time specified, she rose from her chair and blew out all the candles. When asked why she did that, she said she could not tell, but that she felt unhappy till she had done it, and that the impulse was irresistible."
It is the irresistible nature of the impulse in post-hypnotic suggestion, and the feeling of satisfaction when the suggested deed is done, that seem to connect those suggestions in some way with the impulsive actions of the insane.
Suggestion is a modern form or development of the "magnetic promise." It was well known to the magnetisers that if the operator could get a somnambule to promise to do any particular thing after he awoke, he would do it without knowing why, as in "deferred suggestion." A promise made in the magnetic state was always understood by magnetizers to be purely voluntary, and a matter of persuasion, whereas a post-hypnotic suggestion is of the nature of a command, which the subject obeys involuntarily, or at least finds it very difficult to "resist." No explanation of how a magnetic promise acts was attempted by the magnetisers; but the hypnotisers account for Suggestion by supposing an inability on the part of the hypnotised subject to reason inductively, their premises being, supplied by the hypnotiser, and accepted without question, and commands being accepted in the same believing or passive spirit. This inability to reason inductively is not a phenomenon of somnambulic lucidity, and it is in that state that magnetic promises are made; but Colonel de Rochas, who has carried the process of Magnetism to an extreme limit, has found that there are twelve stages of the magnetic condition, separated from each other by a period of unconsciousness that may be only momentary, but always occurs; and that it is only in the earlier and lighter stages of Magnetism that Suggestion is possible, for when the sleep deepens into the lucid degree, suggestibility ceases. Tell a lucid patient ever so impressively that a chair is a cow, and he will laugh at you, or think you mad, just as a person in the waking state might do. This rather elementary fact is apparently unknown to the Suggestionists, probably because their method only produces the suggestible stages of hypnosis; but it seems as if the magnetic promises were the equivalent in the lucid somnambulic state for deferred suggestion in the (technically) hypnotic condition. The Suggestionists contend that the will of the hypnotiser counts for nothing in Suggestion; but in the lucid state his will or "intention" seems to count for a great deal, and the will or intention of the operator may be the force that operates in persuading the subject to make a magnetic promise. Teste, who thought that the art of the magnetiser consisted in "knowing how to impress his will opportunely," and who does not seem to have been aware that if a lucid subject promised to remember his experiences when magnetised he would do so, relates that on one occasion he wished a lady whom he had magnetised to know certain medical facts about which he felt a delicacy in speaking to her. When awake; he explained this to her, and she told him that if he wished it very strongly she would remember what he said. He explained the matter to her with a strong desire that she should remember all about it when she awoke, and she remembered it perfectly well. He adds "since that period, which formed an epoch in my magnetic studies, I have many times repeated the same experiment, and always with the same success." Teste mentions another suggestive instance of the same phenomenon. He had a patient of German birth, who spoke French with a disagreeable accent. He thus describes what happened on one occasion:- '
"One day, as he was after doling out to me a string of words, in which, as if from design, those very consonants which he bungled most disagreeably happened to be collected together, I exclaimed, no longer able to contain myself, ‘For goodness sake, M. Pradhier, speak French as it is spoken in Paris!’ My somnambulist stopped quite short, seemed absorbed a minute or two, then, on my invitation, resumed the thread of his story, but with a purity of accent that actually confounded me. I then asked him if it would not be possible for him to retain, on awakening, the happy fruits of the strange grammar lesson I had just given him, without, however, intending it. ‘Nothing more simple,' he said, ‘you have but to wish it.' ‘Well, then, I wish it: be it so.` "
Taste goes on to say that when Mons. Pradhier awoke he spoke like a Parisian born; but next day he had somewhat relapsed into his "Hamburg peculiarities," and was remagnetised; and a few more repetitions of the Suggestion (as we would call it) made the Parisian accent permanent; insomuch that “one might listen to Mons, Pradhier for whole hours without ever suspecting his birthplace."
Dr. Elliotson investigated the mesmeric promise, and all that seems to be wanting in many of his experiments to bring them up to date today is the name "Suggestion." Here is a case in point:-
"She (Miss Collins) promised to see her maid sitting in the room with her bonnet on as soon as she awoke, and not after I coughed. I awoke her; she was astonished at the sight, and looked displeased; but as soon as I coughed, saw her sitting as usual, with her cap on. She could not comprehend this, and thought her maid was hiding the bonnet behind her back."
Another case, which presents some singular features, is that of a lady whom Elliotson induced to promise that when she awoke she would fancy herself inside a little jar that contained flowers. When awakened she imagined this to be the case, and complained of the disagreeable smell of the inside of the jar, which smell it was found to have. This subject "when made to promise" that when awakened she would fancy herself another lady who was present, went to that lady as soon as she was awakened, and took her fancy work from her, and continued to do that work perfectly, although very difficult, and she had not learned to do such fancy work. On another occasion Elliotson induced one of his patients to believe herself mad when she awoke. When he awakened her she was quite out of her mind, and this state he found it very difficult to remove. When mesmerised next day she said she had actually been mad, and felt so still; and when awakened she had hysterical fits and melancholia. She was cured by making her promise, when mesmerised again, that she would forget that she had been mad. "Resistance" to Suggestion is illustrated curiously by an incident that Elliotson relates. A lady in the sleep promised to whistle on entering the room next morning, but failed to do so. When she was put to sleep again she explained that she did not whistle because the butler was there. When awake she remembered neither the promise nor the reason for not executing it. Dr. Elliotson had a patient who was, in her normal state, hyper-sensitive to sounds; he got her to promise that, when demesmerised, she would not hear them; this happened as promised, and gave such relief that he remarks, "Here is a fact showing the important use to which the power of impressions in the mesmeric state can be applied." Thus Elliotson perceived the therapeutic importance of Suggestion which Braid could not see.
Examples of some cures operated by dr. Elliotson
The first case was one of epilepsy, occurring in a girl sixteen years of age, a housemaid of diminutive stature. She had been subject for twelve months before her admission, on the 4th of April, 1837, to attacks of epilepsy, which occurred about once a week, or oftener. At twelve years of age she had a fall, by which she was stunned: this was worthy of remembrance. She was subject to almost constant headaches in the morning and evening; they also came on a short time previous to the occurrence of a fit, and sometimes shooting pains across the occiput preceded the fit for a few days. She also experienced before the fit came on a sensation of coldness, which ran up the spine, and was attended with numbness, which, when it reached the head, produced the feeling of her being stunned, and then she lost consciousness. The fit was characterised by convulsions, chiefly of the face and trunk; the extremities were in a rigid state, the hands clenched, the face variously contorted, the eyes rolled. This state was not followed by coma, but with a restlessness and sleeplessness, and a severe throbbing pain of the head, which generally continued for three or four hours. She had been cupped on the shoulders last January, and had leeches applied to the temples, and took some aperient medicine. She had a fit last night; the fits usually come on in bed during the state intermediate between sleeping and waking. Complained on her admission of headache, and sickness after food; tongue clean, appetite bad, bowels regular.
The peculiarity in this case consisted in the fact of the patient, as soon as the convulsions of the epileptic seizure were over, subsiding into a restless, fidgetty state, which lasted three or four hours, instead of falling into the state of coma, which is usual in this affection. In the treatment of the case, at first, as the pulse was not full, it was thought there was no necessity for blood-letting, and low diet was considered sufficiently active antiphlogistic treatment; and on the 4th of April quarter-grain doses of nitrate of silver were commenced, and given three times a-day: the dose was increased by a quarter of a grain gradually, until she reached two-grain doses three times a-day. On the 9th, the report stated that since the last fit, which occurred on the 6th, she had suffered from continual pain in the temples, and, indeed, all over the head, and it was found necessary to take blood, which was buffed and cupped. She was now subject to similar attacks, and it was found necessary frequently to bleed her; the pulse was hard and full. On the 16th of May she was bled to eight ounces; on the 20th, to eight ounces; and on the 23rd ten ounces were taken away. The nitrate of silver was being increased all this time gradually. She took this medicine for six weeks from its first commencement; he never gave it during a longer period, for fear of discolouring the skin. On the 27th of May, the fits being as frequent as before, though the nitrate of silver was given in two-grain doses, that medicine was discontinued, and the cuprum ammoniatum, in quarter of a grain doses, was commenced, and given three times a-day, the dose being increased by a quarter of a grain twice a week. On the 5th of June she was taking onegrain doses of the medicine; this produced sickness, though, as has been stated, she bore two-grain doses of the nitrate of silver. As the copper produced this nausea, the dose was diminished to three-quarters of a grain; and as this now, also, produced sickness, on the 10th she took one minim of creosote with each dose of it, and this effectually prevented the nausea, and the copper was again increased to grain doses. On the 16th, the report states, that there has been no nausea and no fit. On the 17th, however, the nausea returned, and the creosote was increased to two minimdoses, with the effect of checking the sickness, and she bore the copper well. On the 20th, the dose was increased to one grain and a quarter. On the 24th, there had been no fit, and there was no nausea. Soon after she began the copper, which had not produced any decided effects, another agent was called into action in the cure, and any alteration in the state of the case he (Dr. E.) considered was to be ascribed to this.
Under this treatment, which he should shortly speak of more fully, the fits ceased altogether, and instead of the patient having convulsions as she used to have, she was now seized with fits of somnambulism, or, as it had been proposed to call the state, somno-vigilium—a much more appropriate term, and one which expressed the condition better, the patient being both asleep and awake, and walking not being necessary for its existence, that symptom being present in only one species of the affection. All at once she would become perfectly insensible, but her eyes would remain wide open, but perfectly insensible to the effect of light: pulling her hair produced no impression on her. Her sense of hearing was lost to all ordinary sound. Though her eyes were open, yet she was perfectly blind; when you dashed the fingers suddenly towards her eyes, there was no winking. Her tongue was not tried, but it is probable her sense of taste was gone. She had never, in her own recollection, had the sense of smell. Yet, though now totally without external sensation, she was constantly talking, and talked very sensibly, and wittily too; but from the great variety of topics her conversation embraced, it amounted to rambling. She displayed, also, a great spirit of mimicry. This state had been commonly called somnambulism ; somno-vigilium, as he (Dr. E.) had said, was a better term, for this patient could neither stand nor walk, but laid in bed during the attacks. This state would cease as a fit of epilepsy or hysteria ceases. She would become suddenly still, look wild for an instant, rub her eyes, be sensible of everything around her, and resume her natural character, which was that of a quiet, modest girl. These attacks were remarkable, both from the sudden manner in which they came on, and the equally sudden manner in which they went off. As she could not be awakened by external impressions made on her, Dr. Elliotson determined on trying what would be the effect of producing a strong internal sensation in her, and endeavoured to get her to believe she was likely to fall to the ground. For this purpose she was lifted from the bed, and it was found that she could not stand; she was then supported under the arms, and at first she felt the ground slightly, then afterwards gradually got a proper feeling in her feet, then by degrees she began to step out, and, with assistance, at last walked firmly. She suddenly awoke during the walk, ceased to speak, appeared lost for a moment, then moved her head, seemed astonished, and awoke, and walked to bed well. She was shortly after laid on her bed for repose, and no sooner was this done than she fell again into the same state. In a moment she again became senseless; her eyes, again, though wide awake, lost their sight entirely ; she talked again in the same rambling way, and was again as rude in her mimicry as before. She was again taken up, and walked about, and was instantly restored, and remained in her natural state for a week. At the end of a few days the same kind of attacks again came on. Nothing had made so great an impression on him (Dr. E.) as to see the brain, as instanced in this case, completely senseless, and yet the mind wandering and active, in two or three moments the patient losing all external sensation, which was suddenly again restored, again lost, and again restored. Some similar symptoms were observed in a common epileptic fit, such as the person in a moment becoming perfectly senseless, and as suddenly becoming sensible, but the intellect, as in this case, was not active during the state of external insensibility. After a few weeks the character of these attacks completely changed; she still wandered in her talk, displayed the same spirit of mimicry, sang, whistled, danced, was rude, noisy, laughing, or miserable, by turns, but she also retained in these attacks all her external senses; she saw, heard, and walked well, and the power over the voluntary muscles was entire; she was now in a state of what was called ecstatic delirium; the attacks coming on suddenly, and as suddenly ceasing, no symptoms of phrenitis being present, the attacks lasting a few hours, and coming and going like attacks of epilepsy. There you might see her in the ward singing, dancing, and mimicing every individual; sometimes swearing, sometimes rather affectionate; then the attack going off as suddenly as it came on; she seemed lost for a moment, then began to smile, look pleased, and at once became herself again.
Now, they (the students) were aware, that when affections of this nature attacked persons while asleep, and they were partially awakened, the state they were then in was called somnambulism; but when the attacks came on while the persons were awake, and they became half asleep, the result was ecstacy. The one term he had employed, that of "sleep-waking," applied to both these states. Sleep-waking was much more extraordinary in some persons than in others. This patient recollected in one paroxysm what occurred in former ones, but when out of the attacks she forgot all that took place in them. She had a memory of circumstances which happened in the fits during the presence of the fits only; but she also remembered in the fits those things which occurred out of them. The eyes of this patient converged towards the nose, one rather more so than the other; he (Dr. E.) wished to know if she saw double; she appeared to see everybody; but her vision was much disturbed, for she never winked when the fingers were pushed suddenly towards the eyes, and when one finger was held up she said there were two ; when two, that there were four; then she often said that people's "eyes were turning round," etc. This double vision was a common occurrence when one eye converged more than another, and arose from the adductor muscle on one side being drawn aside. When a watch was held to her, she could not tell the minute hand from the other, and it all appeared confused to her, though she seemed to the looker-on to have perfect vision. This symptom has been remarked in other similar cases, as well as the effect also of light on the iris, and pushing the fingers against the eyes, which produced no winking.
REPORT OF CASES TREATED MAGNETICALLY AT THE NORTH LONDON HOSPITAL.
(Extracted from the Morning Post, March 2nd, 1838.)
…We there saw Dr. Elliotson and his assistant, Mr. Wood, in the course of their routine of visit, in the midst of a crowd of pupils and visitors, produce very extraordinary effects on two female patients, Elizabeth O'Key and Hannah Hunter, apparently with no greater mental and bodily exertion than what would attend the act of steadily holding forth the hand towards the forehead of the patient for a few minutes, varying from two to twelve, till the effect is produced. This treatment is, it appears, no longer looked upon as a matter of experiment or curiosity in the hospital, but as a portion of a regular (though very peculiar) medical course, which has been found in these two cases to be productive of decidedly good results. The patient to be thus acted on is seated in a chair—the doctor, or his assistant, silently extends one hand open and the palm downward, towards (but pot touching) her eyebrows—and in a few minutes she breathes heavily, and at once drops off into a state of insensibility, which differs from sleep in some very extraordinary respects. Both patients grow cold at the extremities; their pulse becomes so languid as to be scarcely felt; and they cannot be aroused by any of the ordinary means which never fail to disturb the slumber of the soundest sleepers. The extent to which this has been carried ineffectually will be best seen in the medical notes of the treatment of these cases, which we subjoin. These we obtained from one of the pupils, who took an especial interest in these proceedings, and will doubtless be more acceptable to medical readers than our own unprofessional observations.
The most interesting case is that of the girl O'Key. Each time that we beheld her magnetised, or Mesmerised, she fell at first (for a minute or two) in the insensible state, and then stood up, exhibiting a new condition of existence, in which the ideas, language, and feelings, appeared thrown back into an artless, ignorant, puerile childhood. The dialect she then gabbles volubly is scarcely English, thickly interspersed with " what" or "whatten," and "such" or "suchen," which seem, by the emphasis she imparts to them, to hold most important, places in her vocabulary as expletives and superlatives. In her ordinary state she appears an intelligent gentle little girl, without any peculiar defect in her language, very pale (the effect of repeated bleedings, to relieve continual headaches), and is said to be, notwithstanding her sufferings in this respect, possessed of an excellent temper and affectionate disposition. Under the operation of magnetism, all her good sense appears lost, but her good feelings remain in full force, and she evinces deep sympathy with some one of the pupils present, in whom she takes a particular interest. … Her memory in the trance appears remarkably tenacious on some points—a perfect blank on others. When she first awakes into her magnetic state (if we may be allowed to use the expression), out of the preliminary minute of slumber, she seems to enjoy at once a revival of her previous magnetic-dreaming existence, inquires affectionately for Dr. Elliotson or some friends who has been lost to her mind's eye during her ordinary waking intervals, and then begins to chatter away her gipsy patois, free from headache, untroubled by prudential considerations, unconscious of any operations, however painful, which may be performed on her—tells comical stories, mimics the crooked-mouthed family, who could not blow out the little farthing rushlight, and whistles very prettily. Her senses meanwhile appear but half awake—her fingers at times lose their perception altogether, and her eyes the power of adjusting the optic axes, so that one finger held up appears to her as two. Her appearance as she sits, as pale and almost as still as a corpse, is strangely awful. She whistles, to oblige Dr. Elliotson—an incredulous bystander presses his finger on her lips—she does not appear conscious of the nature of the interruption, but when asked to continue, replies, in childish surprise, "It can't." This state of magnetic semi-existence will continue—we know not how long; she has continued in it for twelve days at a time, and when awakened to real life, forgets all that has occurred in the magnetic one I Can this be deception? We have conversed with the poor child in her ordinary state, as she sat by the fire in her ward, suffering from the headache, which persecutes her almost continuously when not under the soothing influence of the magnetic operation, and we confess we never beheld anybody less likely to prove an impostor. We have seen Professor Faraday exerting his acute and sagacious powers for an hour together in the endeavour to detect some physical discrepancy in her performance, or elicit some blush of mental confusion by his naive and startling remarks. But there was nothing which could be detected, and the Professor candidly acknowledged that the matter was beyond his philosophy to unravel! He was, however, after a brief lesson in "manipulation," at the hands of Dr. Elliotson, able on the instant to restore both patients to their states of ordinary consciousness. The requisite movement is performed by drawing the thumbs (or a finger of each hand) from the top of the nose along the eyebrows, outwards to the temples, quickly and steadily, two or three times. We shall now subjoin the professional notes bearing on the cases of these two girls, only observing that the medical student who drew them up employs the word "Mesmerism" to express the operation or influence, which is, in ordinary, known by the name we have employed as most familiar to the majority of readers,—viz., "animal magnetism."
NOTES BY A PUPIL.
"Elizabeth O'Key, aged seventeen, was admitted last April, labouring under epilepsy; the fits came on every few days, scarcely at longer intervals than a week. Baron Dupotet commenced practising Mesmerism in her case last summer. At first a deep sleep was produced, and during the continuance of this process, the fits came on at longer intervals. After a time, a different effect was produced, and fits of delirium, in which she lost entirely sensation, came on spontaneously at intervals, and were always removed by Mesmerism, but never caused without this process. Latterly, it has been ascertained that this delirium might be produced artificially by Mesmerism, and that it might be done without the patient being aware that the process was going on. In short, the delirium may be induced and removed without her knowledge. It is not necessary to the production of this effect that any movements should be made with the hand, or even that the hand should be used at all. Any person may produce this effect, and also remove it. In this delirium she does not remember what takes place in her natural state, nor in her natural state does she remember what takes place in the delirium; but she distinctly remembers from one fit to another, though she has no idea of time, saying that a circumstance which occurred a month ago happened within a minute. She can recognise persons; but is not able to see the absurdity of a man being her mother! To describe all the peculiarities of her case would be almost impossible; it must be seen to be understood. A few days since it was found necessary to place a seton in the back of her neck. The insensibility was produced in a few minutes in the ordinary manner; and while she was talking, and in the middle of a sentence, the seton was thrust through at the back of her neck. She took no notice whatever of it, finished the sentence, continued talking, and evinced not the slightest pain, nor could the least trace of suffering be discerned in her countenance. The wound was dressed, her clothes re-adjusted, and she was then restored to her natural state in a few minutes, perfectly unconscious of having been the subject of any operation, as was evinced by her saying, some time afterwards, that she thought somebody had been pinching her neck, for it felt very sore, and was perfectly astonished when told that a seton had been introduced. Surely this circumstance alone is sufficient to justify an inquiry into Mesmerism. If by this means painful operations may be performed without the knowledge of the patient, why do surgeons hesitate for one moment to put its efficacy more extensively to the test?
"What further advantage medicine may hope to derive from the more extensive adoption of Mesmerism remains to be proved; time alone can solve the question. It is now upwards of three months since she had the last fit."
"Hannah Hunter, aged thirteen, was admitted the beginning of last month, having lost the use of her legs entirely, and being unable even to sit up in a chair. The treatment adopted was tonics, cold shower-baths, and electricity. After these remedies had been persevered in for about three weeks, she so far improved as to be able to sit up; but was still unable to stand alone. On the two first occasions of being Mesmerised, drowsiness only was produced; the third time the peculiar sleep caused by this process was induced and removed at pleasure. After this had been continued for a few days, all the other means of treatment were omitted, the sleep was induced every day, and allowed to continue an hour or two. For a few days there was no apparent change; but after that she began to improve, her strength increased in proportion as the paralysis subsided, and she is now able to stand very well, and even to walk with very trifling assistance."
FURTHER REPORT OF CASES TREATED MAGNETICALLV AT THE NORTH LONDON HOSPITAL.
(Extracted from the Globe, Tuesday, April 17th, 1838.)
The first persons submitted to the operation were two boys of the same age, of apparently similar physical organization, affected each with the same disease, and both of whom had entered the hospital at the same time. In the countenances of the two a marked difference was however perceptible, and the most casual spectator might have at once decided that one was far more likely than the other to be affected by anything that appealed to the imagination, or was to work upon the nervous system. Accordingly, it was proved, that while the one was easily and rapidly subjected to the influence of the experimenter, the other remained absolutely unmoved. Dr. Elliotson took his station behind both, and commenced a conversation with the spectators in front. During the course of the conversation, without anything that might inform the patients of his movements, he commenced his magnetising operation by pointing the fingers at the back of the head. In less than a minute one boy fell into a sound sleep, from which, however, he was easily awakened; the other, though the magnetising process was continued for upwards of a quarter of an hour, seemed to experience no effect of any sort. He appeared, however, marvellously to enjoy his position; and more than once, as though to tantalize the curious group around, he feigned to sleep for a moment, and then, suddenly opening his eyes, laughed in the face of those who were anxiously bending forward to witness the unexpected success which they imagined was crowning the experiment. The sleep of his companion seemed natural and unfeigned, and after having been wakened, he was again thrown into a state of slumber by a repetition of the process. It was stated, that the boy who had been magnetised had not experienced a single fit since the first operation, while the other, upon whom no effect had been produced, though treated in the ordinary and approved method, had suffered from them every day.
After the boys had been dismissed, a girl, apparently of about fourteen years old, was brought forward. She was operated upon in the same manner as had been adopted in the former case. It was about three minutes before any perceptible result was produced; at the expiration of which period she was in a state of profound and obviously unconscious slumber. It should be stated, that she had been brought into the hospital on account of the loss of all use of the lower extremities, produced by a hysterical affection. She had been treated in the ordinary way without success; but subsequently to her being magnetised, she had recovered the use of her limbs, and walked unsupported into the room. Two or three attempts were made to rouse her by lifting her arm, pulling her hair, calling her, lifting her off the chair, and placing her upright, but without the least effect. She was then half awakened, or rather thrown into a state of somnambulism, by the operator drawing his thumbs across the eyebrow, from the insertion of the nose outwards ; and in this condition, though still seemingly unconscious, she was able to stand upright. After being kept in this state for a short time, she was again thrown into a sound sleep, and placed in a chair, while the next subject was introduced. In this chair she slept for about an hour and a half, through a hubbub that might have awakened the seven sleepers.
Her successor was a girl of about the same age, of quiet, demure, almost sullen countenance, subject to occasional fits of delirium. She was speedily thrown into a deep sleep, and was then somnabulised. When in this state of partial consciousness—a consciousness like that of true somnambulism, when the individual is fully aware of what he does, though all memory of it ceases with the cessation of his sleep—the whole expression of her countenance changed. It became cheerful, animated, and intelligent. She noticed objects immediately in front, though of the presence of all but these she seemed absolutely ignorant; and she made some not very complimentary observations upon the appearance, dress, and manners of some of the persons present. Many experiments were tried upon her, of the most of which it was scarcely possible that she should have been conscious, for the purpose of sending her again into a profound slumber; and these were, so far as we could judge, uniformly successful. One of the experiments consisted in the operator, while standing at her back, placing his hands each near one of hers, and then gradually extending his arms, still keeping the fingers pointed towards her, when her arms were, or seemed to be, drawn apart by an irresistible power. This, however, was one of the cases in which collusion appeared possible; though on a minute, and certainly rather sceptical scrutiny, we confess that we feel by no means certain that it was practised.
After this had been continued for some time, the most searching test was introduced. A powerful magnetic galvanic battery was introduced, and the last-mentioned girl was exposed to its full influence. She stood it without the movement of a muscle, except that her hands were contracted; which is, we believe, the invariable effect of the trial. Several gentlemen present, in order to satisfy themselves that there was no deception, tried the effect of the same apparatus, but could not endure, for half a minute, what the girl had endured for three minutes, and what she tried again without the slightest reluctance, and with the same apparent unconsciousness. The experiment was then tried upon the former girl. While in the state of somnambulism she felt the pain, though it did not wake her; but when thrown into a state of perfect sleep, though the muscles of her hand and arm worked, there was no appearance of pain in her face. Another girl, the sister of the second, was introduced, and underwent the same test with perfect indifference and seeming freedom from all pain. We have thus stated what we actually witnessed. That certain wonderful effects were produced was beyond all doubt, and that no other means were employed than the pointing or waving of the hands of the operator also seems clear. Of course we cannot say how far training might have perfected the girls in the part they played, if it was acting; but, to say nothing of the character of Dr. Elliotson, and the securities which the publicity of the hospital affords against any such practices, the appearance and manner of the subjects experimented upon forbids the supposition that such was the case. It would seem that there are powers and susceptibilities in the human frame yet undeveloped, and whose existence is hardly suspected; and whatever may be the opinion formed by any one of the absolute worth of these trials, they cannot deny but that they open out a new and interesting chapter in human nature. With these speculations we have, however, nothing to do for the present. We went as spectators, and our business is merely to give a faithful narration of what we saw.

James Esdaile.

India – Mental phenomena-—He thought that Mesmerism should be known to everyone-Its benefit in therapeutics-Its efficiency in insanity-Esdaile's broadness of view-His belief in the "fluid"    Mesmerism known to the Faquirs of India

“Wonderful to say, this greatly desiderated and almost unhoped for curative agent not only exists in Nature, but is an essential element in the human constitution, … most persons possess the power of curing others, or of being themselves cured occasionally, by an inherent sanative influence propagatable between different individuals: for health is transmissible as well as disease, it appears.” James Esdaile
His wonderful success in India
James Esdaile pre-eminently deserves the title of "Great Mesmeriser," for no one else has approached him in the daring and successful use of Mesmerism to produce insensibility to pain in severe surgical operations. Esdaile was a young Scotch surgeon, born in 1808, who went to India at the age of 23 in the East India Company's service, and, a few years later, was appointed to the charge of a small hospital at Hooghly, a village `25 miles from Calcutta. While there he read Elliotson's Harvean Oration, and was much impressed by his declaration "that he would despise himself if he denied the truth of the mesmeric phenomena." 

His first experience, and what it taught him
In 1845 he experimented on a native convict under his charge, and then upon other surgical patients, and his success was so striking that Sir Herbert Maddox, the Governor of Bengal, appointed a committee of seven (four of whom were medical men) to look into the matter. They attended nine operations, and reported that it was, in their opinion, "'incumbent on Government to afford to their zealous and meritorious officer (Mr. Esdaile) such assistance as may facilitate his investigations." Accordingly a small hospital was opened by public subscription in Calcutta for Mr. Esdaile in November, 1846, under Government auspices, and "Visitors" were appointed by the Governor.153
Opposition and triumph
His success there was so great, and the Report of the Visitors so favourable, that Lord Dalhousie, the Governor-General, appointed him Presidency Surgeon,154 and afterwards Naval Surgeon, and an Order in Council made it obligatory for all surgeons, after taking their degree in India, to take a two months' course of practical mesmerism under Mr. Esdaile. In all, Esdaile performed 261 operations under mesmerism, almost all of them of the severest kind, including zoo excisions of scrotal tumours, weighing from 10 to 103 pounds, an operation so generally fatal that in most of the cases which he successfully treated no other surgeon would operate, and he never lost a patient in these cases.155
In 1848 chloroform began to be employed in India, and was taken up warmly by the Faculty there, and in consequence the utility of mesmerism in surgical cases ceased to attract attention.
Esdaile retired from the Company's service in 1851, returned to Scotland, and settled near Perth, devoting himself to the recording of his mesmeric observations and experiences in India. He soon found Scotland too cold, after twenty years' sojourn in India, and came South, dying in Sydenham in January, 1859, aged 50. Mr. Esdaile did little actual mesmerising after he left India, for he had retired from surgical practice, and he had not personally operated mesmerically for many years; moreover, he thought that "only the depressing influence of disease will be found to reduce Europeans to the impressionable condition of the nervous system so common to Eastern nations." Esdaile thus graphically describes his first experience in mesmerism:-
" At the time of making my first experiment, I had never seen anyone mesmerised, nor read a mesmeric book, and had only conversed with one person who had witnessed the mesmeric phenomena. My informant, being a trustworthy gentleman, excited my curiosity, but as I could get no books on the subject, I determined to experiment for myself, leaving the when and the how undetermined. Accident decided this for me, and under circumstances that precluded the possibility of mistake. On the 4th of April, 1845, a Hindoo of the lowest caste was brought to the hospital with a double hydrocele. The water was drawn off one side of the scrotum, and two drachma of the usual corrosive sublimate injection thrown in. On feeling the pain from the injection, the man threw his head over the back of the chair, and pressed his hands firmly upon his groins, making the grimaces of a person in pain. Seeing him suffering in this way, it occurred to me to attempt to mesmerise him; and turning to my native assistant, I asked him if he had ever seen a person mesmerised. He said that he had seen it attempted at the Calcutta Medical College, but without success. ‘I have a -great mind to try it on this man,` I said, ‘but as I never saw it done, I shall probably not succeed.' Without a word said to the man, his eyes being still closed, I began to make passes from the crown of his head to the pit of his stomach without touching him. I continued this for half an hour, and then gave it up in despair, seeing no sensible effect. While resting myself (the thermometer was 850) I desired the man to open his eyes, and he said he saw smoke. This aroused my attention, as I had heard of mesmeric haze. He shortly removed his hands from his groins, crossed his arms on his breast, and all signs of uneasiness disappeared. In half an hour more, he took no notice of my questions, and remained perfectly passive while I drove a pin into the small of his back. Latterly his back began to arch backwards, and he was now in a state of opisthotonos, the nape of his neck resting on the back of the chair, and his breech on the edge of the seat. Being now convinced that we had got something extraordinary, I went over to the adjacent court house, and begged the judge and the collector of the district to come to the hospital. 
We found him in the same position I had left him in, and no hallooing `could attract his attention. Fire was applied to his knee without his shrinking in the least, and liquor ammonia that brought tears into our eyes in a moment, was inhaled by him for some minutes without causing an eyelid to quiver. I now bent his head forward, and placed his eyes in front of a mid-day Indian sun. On opening the eyelids, his pupils were seen to be dilated as if by belladonna, and the light produced no effect whatever on the iris. We were all now quite satisfied that total insensibility of all the senses existed, and left him. He awoke after three hours, and had no recollection of what had happened.
"From a careful survey of all the attending circumstances of the case, I felt confident-
I.—That it was morally and physically impossible that the man could be an impostor, inasmuch as he could not imitate what he had never heard of. But allowing that he had suppressed
all expression of pain by a powerful effort of will, it was absurd to suppose that he could by any act of volition control the movements of an involuntary organ like the iris.
2.—That as the man could not possibly imagine what was expected, there could be no imagination at work in the matter.
3. —That there was no consent or mental sympathy between the parties; and it has been seen that there was no suggestion.
4.—That it was not necessary for the patient's eyes to be open."
From this and other early cases, Esdaile drew four conclusions, namely:-
“I.—I was certain (if life is not a phantasmagoria) that in the mesmeric trance the muscles of the whole body had been as plastic and obedient to my command as clay in the hands of the
potter; and I felt satisfied that if the same state of things could be brought about, muscular spasms and contractions would disappear before the great solvent. The straightening of limbs long contracted soon verified this inference.
2.—Having in this case witnessed the total extinction of nervous irritability, I was led to conclude that in a like state of things, nervous pains would vanish before this supreme anodyne. The cure of nervous headaches immediately demonstrated the truth of this idea.
3.—The insensibility to pain convinced me that 'the most painful surgical operations might be performed without the knowledge of the patient, and this has been done to an extraordinary extent, so much so, as to be a daily matter of course.
4.—I had seen high local inflammation and sympathetic fever suspended during the trance in my first patient, and the artificial inflammation (which it was my object to excite for the - cure of hydrocele) did not develop itself, and that the pulse and temperature had become natural; hence, I inferred that inflammation was probably incompatible with such a state of the constitution, and I soon succeeded in curing acute inflammation of the eye and testes by no other means than the mesmeric trance."
In later years he stated his general conclusions as follows:-
“I.—That mesmerism is a natural power in the human body.
2.—That it affects directly the nervous and muscular systems.
3.—That in the mesmeric trance the most severe and protracted surgical operations can be performed without the patients being sensible of pain.
4.—That spasms and nervous pains disappear before the mesmeric trance.
5.—That it gives us complete command of the muscular system, and is, therefore, of great service in restoring contracted limbs.
6.—That the chronic administration of mesmerism often acts as a useful stimulant in functional debility of the nerves.
7.—That as sleep and the absence of all pain is the best condition of the system for subduing inflammation, the mesmeric trance will probably be found to be a powerful remedy in local inflammations.
8.—That the imagination has nothing to do with the first physical impressions made in the system by mesmerism, as practised by me.
9.—That it is not necessary for the eyes to be open; I always shut them as a source of distraction; and blind men are as readily mesmerised as others.
I0.—That water can be charged with the mesmeric fluid, and has a powerful effect on the system when it has been previously affected.
II.—That the mesmeric influence can be transmitted through the air to considerable distances, and even pass through dense materials."
I do not think that the great importance of Esdaile's mesmeric experiences has ever been fully perceived. In one respect 'those experiences’ were unique, for he conquered his enemies, and brought mesmerism into the forefront of surgical, if not of medical practice. He occupied the extraordinary, almost unnatural, position of a mesmeriser who was treated not only with respect, but with honour by his fellow citizens and by the Government. It was only a section of his professional brethren that continued to oppose him, and that opposition appeared far more important than it was, because those who promoted it controlled some of the Indian medical periodicals and schools. The Calcutta Medical College was Esdaile's greatest foe, and the Calcutta Medical Journal called his patients "a set of hardened and determined impostors." Esdaile laughs at this, and says that he has more operations to perform in a month than all the other hospitals in Calcutta put together have in years, so he supposes the Hindus find it great fun to come hundreds of miles to get capital operations performed on them, and when they go home persuade their friends to come and take a part in the joke; for he can imagine no other motive for the tremendous and wholesale imposture than the fun of mystifying the Faculty of Calcutta. His own experience evidently reminds him of Galileo, for he quotes Galileo's letter to Kepler; and he says that he felt like "a keeper of a madhouse whose patients have risen in rebellion and threatened to put him to death if he did not confess himself to be the only madman in the establishment." Before Esdaile left India, however, he was able to sing a song of triumph; and in "Natural and Mesmeric Clairvoyance" (1852) he says:-
" The daily press, with one or two exceptions, at first joined in the orthodox medical howl against me, having been misled and imposed upon by the reckless assertions and confident dog-matism of the professional part of the press. But the judgments of the lay editors were not permanently obscured by professional bigotry, jealousy, and wounded self-love; and, soon perceiving that they had been blind guides, they not only professed their conversions, but indignantly turned upon and punished their mis-leaders, and at the end of the year there was not a paper from Cape Cormorin to the Himalayas that did not wish mesmerism and me God-speed."

Esdaile’s method of mesmerising 
One other point in regard to which Esdaile differs from every other magnetiser since Mesmer, is the originality and independence of his ideas and methods. He began, as we have seen, with very vague ideas of the "science", and his mind was not biased by preconceived theory or anticipation. He thus describes the method which he always followed:-
" Desire the patient to lie down and compose himself to sleep, taking care, if you wish` to operate, that he does not know your intention; this object may be gained by saying that it is only a trial; for fear and expectation are destructive to the physical impression required. Bring the crown of the patient's - head to the end of the bed and seat yourself so as to ‘be able to bring your face in contact with his, and to extend your hands to the pit of the stomach, when it is wished; make the room dark, enjoin quiet, and then, shutting your patient's eyes, begin to pass `both your hands `in the shape' of claws, slowly, within an inch of the surface, from the back of the head to the pit of the stomach; dwelling for several minutes over the eyes, nose, and mouth, and then passing down each side of the neck, go downwards to the pit of the stomach, keeping your hands suspended there for some time. Repeat the process steadily for a quarter of an hour, breathing gently on the head and eyes all the time. The longitudinal passes may then be advantageously terminated by placing both the hands gently but firmly on the pit of the stomach and sides. The perspiration and saliva seem also to aid the effects on the system. It is better not to test the patient’s condition by speaking to him, but by gently trying if the cataleptic tendency exists in the arms. If the arms remain fixed in any position they are left in, and require some force to move them out of every new position, the process has been successful” (and the surgical operation may begin).
To de-mesmerize:-
	 “Blowing sharply in the eyes,156rubbing the eyelids and eyebrows, rapid reverse or transverse passes.”

Esdaile soon found that it was impossible for him to do the actual mesmerising himself; and he made use of the attendants and servants at the hospitals for that purpose, and they soon became strong and skilful magnetisers. He says:-
"A Bengal coolie, or pariah, comes before me for the first time, and I see that he has a disease requiring a surgical operation. I never say a word to him, but desire my assistants to take him to another room and mesmerise him. They desire him to lie down, and shut his eyes, and try to sleep, as they pass their hands over the most sensitive part of the body, exhaling their breath upon the patient, and loading him with their sweat if he does not readily yield to the mesmeric influence. A few minutes of this will sometimes suffice, but more generally it takes hours, and relays of mesmerisers. The lads varied the routine, however, to suit their convenience. One preferred to place both his hands on the pit of the stomach from the beginning to the end of the process, breathing on the eyes and head all the time. Another placed one hand on the pit of the stomach at the beginning, and made passes slowly over the face with the other, changing hands when tired. A third would make passes from the stomach upwards to the head; and they seemed to succeed equally well-provided they attended to the work. A moderate degree of continued attention is indispensable. Otherwise the passes are mere mechanical movements without vitality, and the lads knew from experience that if they did not work with a will they were losing their time.
Whenever a new mesmeriser was wanted my assistants brought some healthy young man who was willing to learn the art, and in a week be became a skilful mesmeriser under their directions."
As Esdaile's use for Mesmerism was in most instances to produce insensibility for surgical operations, he naturally laid most stress on the production of the sleep, and the methods he uses may appear to some to have been coarse and material. However that may be, they succeeded perfectly. He simply gave his directions, and told his assistants to let him know when the patient was ready to be operated upon, which might be either a matter of minutes, or of days; but we do not read of failure to produce insensibility in any case, and in every case the result of the process was total and complete anaesthesia, a very different thing indeed from the "slight drowsiness" or "characteristic vibration of the eyelids" which hypnotists include in their "degrees of hypnosis." He does not seem to have taken any interest in mental methods of producing mesmeric phenomena; he explains their action thus:-
"The mental phenomena are likewise to be accounted for by the theory of physical effects of Mesmerism. Our nervous fluid not only flows in the direction desired by the will, but is also, as we may reasonably conjecture, stamped with our own individuality, and conveys both our physical and mental peculiarities along with it into the system of another. This natural, homogeneous, thought-stamped nervous fluid is transmitted to the mesmerised person's brain through the medium of his nerves; and the consequence is that the thought-modified nervous fluid of the active brain is both reflected and understood by the passive brain of the patient, exactly as the passive end of the electric telegraph records the impulses received from the active extremity of the battery; the difference being that the human battery feels as well as reflects the impressions transmitted .  .  .  This theory will apply equally to the medical part of the subject, and exhibits how the mesmeriser can at pleasure equalise, augment, or torpify by an artificial plethora the nervous powers, and can thereby conquer disease, and take off the sting of pain."
He says however: "I wish it to be understood that I speak only of the physical and inferior mental phenomena, of the higher mental phenomena I have no knowledge; to produce them, mental sympathy will no doubt be indispensable." Elsewhere he says: "In subjecting my patients to the sanative influence of Mesmerism for bodily complaints, no mental rapport has ever been thought of." 
He did not perceive that the desire on his part to cure and do good, and on his patients' part to be cured, created the mental rapport which De Puysegur and Deleuze considered sufficient to make the magnetic process effective. Moreover, he practised a form of Suggestion without knowing it, for he used to "bid" subjects to sleep who had been frequently mesmerised, and the command took effect at once. He says that this "spontaneous mesmeric condition" (as he regarded it) "differed in no particular from that induced by the direct application of the mesmeric influence." He severely criticised those who mislead a subject by false statements, and then say the whole thing is imagination, since they have "done nothing" and yet the subject has gone into a mesmeric state. This has been a favourite way of "disproving the existence of any outside influence or agent," ever since the days of the first French Commission, when in Dr. Franklin's garden the Commissioners told a boy who was an excellent subject that he would be taken to a magnetic tree, and instead conducted him in succession to four trees that had not been magnetised, at each of which he got more and more into the mesmeric state; and similar experiments are accepted even still as proof that the hypnotic condition is always brought on solely by the subject's auto-suggestion.
Of those who say that Mesmerism is produced without an operator or "by doing nothing" Esdaile says:-- 
"The truth is that they were taught their favourite trick by the mesmerisers, who have not only declared that this can be done, but it is a natural consequence of their proceedings if carried to a certain extent. It is often very difficult and laborious to excite the mesmeric action in the constitution; but being once excited, a very slight recurrence to the original process will bring on the paroxysm in all its first intensity, and if the excitement of the nervous system is kept up by frequent mesmerising, it takes on an independent diseased action, obeying constitutional laws which we do not understand; we, in fact, have inoculated the system with a nervous disease which often acts spontaneously, especially on reference to the primary cause; and at this stage the candid medical observer steps in, and demands the applause of an admiring and confounded world for having done with ‘nothing’ what has cost his stupid mesmeric brother so much trouble to effect."
As a rule, however, Esdaile was anxious to avoid mental effects, because he thought they interfered with the physical effects which he wished to produce. He says:-
"Having been long familiar with the power of habit and expectation before Hypnotism or Electro-biology were heard of, every possible precaution was taken to exclude these sources of fallacy. But a dove-like simplicity seems to be considered the badge of all our tribe, and no mesmerist gets credit for having sufficient common sense to take the most common precautions in making his experiments."
In drawing conclusions from his experiences, he put aside everything that might be the result of habit or training:-
"All practical mesmerists know how the specific mesmeric symptoms become complicated with the effects of the imagination and unconscious volition when highly-sensitive subjects are frequently experimented upon. To guard against this source of fallacy, I shall only relate the results of first experiments made upon different subjects."
It is quite possible that Esdaile would have considered most of the ”excellent subjects" of our hypnotists in the light of unfortunates who are afflicted with a serious disease, for he regarded great susceptibility to Suggestion as a sign of the "mesmeric disease":--
"Mesmerism, like all other powerful natural agents, is not only a remedy, but becomes a formidable disease when pushed too far, and deeply rooted in the constitution; and a knowledge of this is the key to a variety of anomalous phenomena-mesmeric in origin, but not produced by it at the time, and which give rise to absurd charges of imposture, delusions, &c., from persons totally ignorant of the subject. These are, in fact, the secondary or constitutional symptoms of the primary disease, mesmerism, which has contaminated the nervous system and predisposed it to take on the mesmeric action whenever it is deranged, especially by anything having reference to the process by which it was first developed in the system. In this respect Mesmerism very closely resembles Hysteria, which, however primarily induced, is apt to recur on the agitation of the body or mind, more particularly if it is in any way associated with the first disturbing cause; and they both correspond in each, being sometimes voluntarily producible. To the experienced person, the springing up of the mesmeric phenomena, without the usual exciting cause, is a moral demonstration that the system has been previously revolutionised by mesmerism. The nervous centres having become morbidly sensitive by the action of this great nervous excitant, every shock to the nerves, especially if connected with Mesmerism, is exhibited in the shape of abnormal mesmeric symptoms."
In Braid's Hypnotism Esdaile saw an example of the action of an abnormal exertion of a part of the organism on the general nervous system. He says:--
"The whole nervous system may be deranged by the exhaustion of a particular organ, as has lately been practised by Mr.Braid, of Manchester, who entrances his patients by making them gaze with a double 'inward squint at an object placed before their eyes."
We shall see by and by that Braid ended by abandoning the belief that the violent squint was necessary, and that he even operated on blind people; and it seems quite possible that he- had heard of Esdaile's doings in Calcutta, and that he may have been influenced thereby. At all events Esdaile evidently regarded him as a fellow-mesmeriser. He merely remarks that Braid's method of producing the trance is a very old one, being that of the monks of Mount Athos, and of the faquirs of India.
The "mesmeric disease"
Like Dr. Elliotson, and indeed like all other medical magnetisers and hypnotists, Esdaile in some places dwells on the harmlessness of Mesmerism, and on others on its dangerousness; both of them thought, as the early magnetisers did, that Magnetism should be used only in case of sickness, and that in any other instance its employment did harm. Writing in the "Zoist," Dr. Elliotson said:-
"When persons enquire of me whether Mesmerism is not a dangerous thing, I always reply that I am happy to say it is. They look astonished, and I continue-because, if it were not dangerous, it would not be a real power in Nature. A nonentity, an unreal, though alleged, power of Nature can do no harm; but all real powers of Nature will work readily for evil if misapplied."
In like manner Dr. Esdaile. in his "Mesmerism in India," says:-
"People say to me, ‘I should like to ascertain if I can be mesmerised; do try.' I reply, ‘You very probably cannot; and I should as soon comply with your desire to feel the effects of opium as mesmerise you without a cause; when you need it you will probably be benefitted by it.' If Mesmerism be forced upon a person in a state of health it is very likely to do mischief; for any attempt to be better than 'well' is pretty sure to make one ill."21
He thought that Mesmerism should be known to everyone
Esdaile, like all other medical magnetisers, is very severe on his own brethren for their treatment of Mesmerism. He says that at first he was disposed to make his experiences known only to members of the Faculty, but that he found that they were either hostile or indifferent, and so he determined to make them known to laymen also, who showed a much more intelligent interest in them; although he believed that Mesmerism is a subject that belongs, properly speaking, to the doctors. He said:-
"The public are too apt to consider the subject of Mesmerism as a professional one, and not to take the necessary means to become acquainted with it till the doctors shall have decided what is to be believed about it. This is an error on the part of the public, for, I am sorry to say, medical men as yet know nothing about it; and there is nothing in their previous knowledge, however great and varied, that bears upon the subject, or can entitle them to decide ex cathedra on the truth or false-hood of the new discovery. As the question at present stands, it is one of facts, and of evidence in support of them, of which a jury of sensible unprofessional men can judge as well as so many doctors, to whom the subject is equally new and perplexing. When the doctors have experimented for themselves, or taken the trouble to witness the practise of others, and carefully studied the subject, the public cannot do better than take them for their guides."
His conception of the true function of the physician resembled Mesmer's:-
"The whole art of the true physician is exerted to induce Nature to interfere and take up the case of his patient; and, when he sees signs of her gracious presence, he only reverently looks on and confines himself to removing impediments in her way. But the routine practitioner will rarely condescend to divide with Nature the merit of the cure. He and his pills, powders, and potions must have all the credit; and if anyone pretends to be able sometimes to cure disease by the unassisted powers of Nature he is called a quack, impostor, or fool, and hunted down as a fera natura. But, in my estimation, the genuine medical quack is he who, professing to cure disease, yet allows his patients to suffer and perish by ignorantly, or presumptuously, despising any promising or possible means of relief."
Esdaile condemns the absurdity of making insensibility to pain the only test of the reality of Mesmerism. He says that doctors have heard of mesmeric coma, and, knowing nothing of Mesmerism, imagine it to be always present, and are ignorant of any other criterion, for the doctors do not know Mesmerism when they see it. He says:- 

"I am anxious that the public should know what Mesmerism really is, in order that they may know it when it comes before them, and be no longer deluded by ignorant and interested quasi-descriptions of it. The involuntary quivering of the eyelids and the spasmodic closing of the eye in persons a minute before wide awake, and resisting perhaps; the extinction of one or more of the organs of sense, which we saw in full activity but a moment ago; the eye turned up so that only the white can be seen, or staring wide open, fixed, and insensible to light; sleep-walking, delirium, convulsions, catalepsy, in persons not subject to those affections till they were subjected to the mesmeric process - is not any one of these induced symptoms as clearly the effect of some constraining influence as the production of insensibility ? "
He says:-
"If medical men wish to see and understand the effects of Mesmerism on the body, the natural and rational mode of proceeding is to attempt to develop them in the persons of their own patients; and, if they will take a tithe of the trouble I have been at, I can promise them very general success. The finest as well as the most striking phenomena will then be equally diagnostic to their practiced eyes, and their understandings will be left clear and free to study and imitate the curative processes of Nature, undisturbed by doubts and suspicions regarding the powers of observation and the honesty of others."
Again:-
"It is by medical men in the country taking up the subject experimentally, without previous knowledge of it, and having no theories to make good or defend, that the truth or falsehood of Mesmerism may be very speedily decided."
And again:-
"Instead of sneering and dogmatising about Mesmerism, I would earnestly entreat my medical brethren to put it to the test of personal experiment; for it is a thing to be done, and not talked of merely."
He encourages his professional brethren thus:-
"I have never seen, nor have any of my acquaintance ever seen, any bad effect accompany or follow operations performed during the magnetic sleep, of which the influence is essentially strengthening instead of being depressing. It fortifies the patient for the operation, secures him from pain during its performance, and facilitates his recovery, inasmuch as it admits of the wound being dressed without pain. It is the best and most prompt sedative when he suffers from local pains, for the system becomes very sensitive during convalescence from serious operations, and a few ‘passes` often act in a more speedy and efficacious manner in procuring sleep and alleviating pain than the most powerful narcotics."
To surgeons he says:-
"In surgery, the benefits of Mesmerism are not confined to the extinction of pain during an operation, but are of the greatest general and particular advantage in the after treatment of surgical diseases."
Again:-
     	"A vital agent which is capable of reducing a living man temporarily to the insensibility of a corpse, and without subsequent injury to the system, it is evident that such an influence possesses the essential conditions of a curative agent in the highest degree-the power of safety in its application."
Its benefit in therapeutics
"It appears that Mesmerism is likely to be as serviceable in the treatment of insanity as it is in general medicine and the practice of surgery. Dr. Kean, writing to me, says, 'Taking a hasty glance over the years 1847 and '48, I see that seventy-four patients were mesmerised, and that of these sixtyfour were discharged cured to all appearance, and I think it has been successful in every case of epilepsy.' "—Dr. Esdaile.
He says of Mesmerism, when it can be introduced in the treatment of medical cases:--
"It is extremely important in instantly extinguishing nervous pains, arresting convulsions, and aiding the natural resolution of inflammation by its anodyne and restorative powers; and, if it could be induced in the commencement of some of the most fatal diseases, it would probably arrest their progress, for it revolutionises the whole system, and every other constitutional affection is for the time suspended. In chronic inflammation it is a useful discutient, gently stimulating the nerves and capillary vessels of the part to more healthy action, and for this purpose local Mesmerism only is required. The chronic exhibition of Mesmerism, as a general tonic in diseases of debility, promises to be of great service, especially in functional derangement of the nervous system, and I am hopeful that we have at last got a direct nervous remedy, hitherto a desideratum in Medicine."
Of the sleep he writes:-
"Mesmeric sleep simulates perfectly sound natural sleep, and is more refreshing even if it has been resorted to for soothing pain or disturbance of the system, and can be had recourse to when it would be improper or useless to administer common narcotics, over which it has the advantage of not inducing a disagreable constitutional derangement after the specific influence has ceased. The restorative power of mesmeric sleep seems to depend upon an animal infusion of nervous vigour into the body, and when induced is a remedial agent; this may account for its superiority over common sleep."
Of the good effect of Mesmerism, when no sleep or coma is produced, Esdaile says:-
"The refreshment from sleep, often not otherwise to be procured, and the sedative influence of the trance would alone constitute Mesmerism a valuable medical agent. But it is from its power of stimulating the nervous system that a patient often draws the greatest benefit when all other remedies have failed, and to procure this effect neither sleep nor coma is usually necessary. The following cases will illustrate this double' action of Mesmerism:-
"Hunga, a Hindoo lad, aged eighteen, came to the hospital with the wrist of the right arm much enlarged and excessively tender; he cannot bear the least pressure on it. The entire hand, back and palm is so swollen (oedematous) that the bone cannot be felt, and there is not the slightest power of motion in the wrists and joints of the fingers. He has been leeched, blistered, etc., during the last six weeks at the Native Hospital, and without the least benefit. The part was ordered to be mesmerised for an hour daily. After three or four days the swelling of the hand began to decrease, the wrist became daily less tender, and at the end of six weeks he was dismissed cured, with the hand as fine as the other, and the motion of all the joints quite free-no other means having been used." 
In the following case, in which likewise no sleep was produced, the symptoms remind one of Mesmer's cure of Major Du Hussay. The first entry reads:-
"July 2nd, I847.-Moteelall Koonwur, a writer, aged 38, residing at Taltullah, in Calcutta, reports that on the 20th of April last, while taking his meal, he suddenly fell down in a fit, and lay insensible for two days. On the third day he was partially restored to his senses by general bleeding and leeching; since that, his body, except the right arm, the right side of the breast, and the left cheek, has become partially paralysed, and subject to a peculiar pricking sensation, which increases much in the evening and prevents him sleeping at night. He has been suffering from spasms in the hands; and the right cheek is so devoid of feeling that he does not consider it a part of his body. He feels and walks like an intoxicated person, and sees double. He cannot stir a foot without his tall staff"
He gradually and slowly improved; no remedy but Mesmerism being used, and the last reads:-
"August 3lst.- His vision is perfect, the pricking is gone, and he has returned to his duty." 
Of mesmerised water Esdaile says:-
"From multiplied experiments in six different hospitals, I should as soon doubt the power of fresh water to quench thirst as that of mesmerised water to induce sleep in persons who have already felt the mesmeric influence. When the sores of patients became foul, and the application of nitric acid became desirable, they often had a dose of mesmerised water as the speediest way of entrancing them, and their sores were then steeped in acid without a sign of sensibility. What more can I say ? "
He adds in a footnote:-
"Here also it will be said that smell and taste, suggestion and imagination, and no extraneous influence, produced the result. I repeat that the only experiments on which I rely were first trials; they were made at intervals of months and years, in six different hospitals; and my test experiments were thus conducted:- The mesmerised water was medicated with tincture of rhubarb, tincture of cardamons, aromatic spirits of ammonia, etc., and given to the patients at their usual time for taking physic, so that it was impossible to excite suspicion or expectation of anything unusual in them. The result was that a large proportion of susceptible subjects were so profoundly entranced on the first occasion that they might have been operated upon without pain, and as said in the text, their unhealthy sores were frequently burned with undiluted nitric acid without their feeling it when sleeping from the effects of mesmerised water. What more effectual precautions could be taken by those who deny any external influence I cannot in my simplicity imagine. And so in regard to mesmerising persons in another room while the attention was actually engaged; no possible precaution was omitted to prevent them from suspecting my intentions."
Its efficiency in insanity
Although Esdaile does not apparently attach much importance to his experiences with the insane, his success was very remarkable:-
"I having expressed my desire to the gentlemen comprising the committee of management of the Subscription Mesmeric Hospital to try the effect of Mesmerism upon the insane, they very liberally gave me funds to pay mesmerisers for six months, and Dr. Strong, Physician to the Calcutta Lunatic Asylum, very kindly permitted me to experiment on his patients. Being familiar with the soothing and strengthening effects of Mesmerism upon the debilitated and irritable nervous system of the sane, and believing that insanity, in general, originates in debility or functional derangement of the brain, I expected to find Mesmerism of benefit in the treatment of madness, like everything else that restores tone and regularity to the nervous system. But unfortunately the asylum here only contains the most unfavourable and disheartening subjects to work upon; the inmates being poor, friendless wretches, pulled up by the police on the highways, or confined by order of the magistrates for offences committed in paroxysms. As there was seldom any history of these cases, Esdaile could only guess at the cause or duration of the disease, and had very little expectation of any appreciable result. The patients were taken in the order of their names on the Register, only very old, palpably idiotic inmates being left out. In order to eliminate the chance that a lucid interval was the commencement of a spontaneous cure, or a cure effected by other means, the patients were mesmerized in the first instance when actually insane. At the end of six months the results were:--
			Cured apparently 	…	…	…	…	  8
			Cured and relapsed	…	…	…	…	  I
			No Change 	…	…	…	…	…	18
			Died	…	…	…	…	…	…	  I
			Under treatment (Much Improved)	…	…	  9
										37
He makes the following  very interesting  remarks about these cases:-
“As I anticipated, we found the insane as readily affected as the sane; many of the patients being thrown into the trance, although this was not desired, it not being thought necessary. Several of the men dated their recovery from a certain day, saying that after they awakened on such a day they felt their ‘heads lightened,' or their ‘hearts opened,' and their appearance and conduct corresponded with the statement."
Dr. Kean, of Moorshedabad Insane Asylum, Esdaile's friend, was more successful with lunatics. He tried Mesmerism on a blind man, and put him to sleep in half an hour; this so impressed him with the power of Animal Magnetism that he introduced it into his practice with the lunatics under his care, and from that time had no more trouble with them. The hospital attendants and guards were his operators. In the Lunatic Asylum of Berampore Dr. Kean treated seventy-four patients by Mesmerism during the years 1847 and 1848, and discharged sixty-four cured. It is probable that Dr. Kean also used what would now be called Suggestion, for the "Calcutta Register of Medical Science," in reporting these cases, remarks that the promise to do anything when mesmerised is carried out afterwards in the waking state, the subject feeling "an instinctive craving" to do it, not knowing why. Esdaile says of him:--
"Dr. Kean, of Berhampore, has for several years used Mesmerism very extensively in his large Lunatic Asylum with excellent curative effects, and finds it of great service in maintaining the quiet and discipline of his hospital. If this is not enough to give the coup de grace to the theory of suggestion and imagination as explanatory of the results obtained in my practise of Mesmerism, I will adduce instances of people being entranced from another room without their having the least suspicion of my intentions, and of a blind man being reduced on the first attempt to the most intense degree of mesmeric coma.”157
Esdaile's broadness of view
What probably saved Esdaile from growing narrow, and perhaps becoming hardened into the head of a School, was that as soon as he had satisfied himself that Mesmerism was a great reality he sent for all the books he could hear of that treated of the subject, most of which at that time were written in French or German; and it is the fact that he was well informed as to what others had done that gives a weight to his opinions that is wanting in the case of those who ignore or deny any experiences but those which agree with their own - the besetting sin of the modern Hypnotist. He says:-
"I now know (and I deplore my long ignorance) that the battle was fought and won before I was born by the truthful and benevolent Puysegur, Deleuze, and their companions, and that I, under the tropics, am only again demonstrating what they on the banks of the Seine had long ago established. The people on the continent have been familiar with both the good and the evil of Mesmerism for the last thirty years, while we in England are only now giving an unwilling ear to the expounders of a law of Nature which is as much a part of the human constitution as the processes of thought and digestion. It is to be hoped that on this subject our neighbours will no longer have reason to reproach our insular ignorance and presumption."
He was astonished at the "presumption" of those who, without experiment or enquiry, denied that which he believed to be so well authenticated, and which they, as he had done, could with ease personally prove to be facts. He wrote:-
"The reporters of the facts in question are, for the most part, men whose intellectual attainments in general are known to have been of a superior order, and whose moral character is elevated far above suspicion; men, in short, far more honourable and trustworthy than their wretched, chiefly anonymous caluminators.158 They will be found to be chiefly eminent physicians, such as Hufeland, physician to the king of Prussia;  Steiglitz, physician to the king of Hanover; Brandis, physician to the king of Denmark; Klein, physician to the king of Wirtemberg; Wienholt; Olbers, the Astronomer; Gmelin; Heineken; Bockman; Baehrens; Ennemmoser; Sprengel, author of a history of Medicine, and other learned works;  Haindorf;  Nolte; Spindler; Nasse; Nees von Esenbbeck; Passevant; Zierman; Heinroth; Leupoldt, &c. - Physiologists, such as Reil; Trevarinus; Autenrieth; Humboldt; Burdach; Eschenamayer; Kiezer, &c.- Naturalists, such as La Place; Cuvier; Oken.- Philosophers, such as Fichte; Schelling; Steffens; Baader; Hegel, &c.-Theologians, such as Schleiermacher; Mayer, &c. To these might be added a vast number of men of general science and celebrated literary characters. But it has been alleged that the evidence of these enlightened individuals is liable to discredit because, forsooth, they were engaged in investigating the phenomena of Animal Magnetism. Assuredly, this is a strange, and, we must take the liberty of saying, most preposterous objection. Pray, how are the facts of Nature to be discovered and appreciated unless by those who take an interest in investigating them?"
Esdaile’s belief in the "vital agent"
Esdaile, however, was too thoroughly grounded in his own experiences at first ever to rest his opinions on the authority of others, and what he gives us are his own experiences, and his own deductions from them. His experiences forced him to adopt the fluid theory as the only possible explanation of the effects produced by his method; but he did not investigate the psychic, and what might perhaps be called the cosmic aspects of Animal Magnetism. He did not deny the power of mind, or the purely psychic method, to cure disease; but, as he did not employ it, he does not theorise about it. He was a Hypnotist, if we use that name as a general term, but he was a specialist in Mesmerism, just as Liebeault and Bernheim are specialists in Suggestion; but his specialism differed in kind from that of our modern hypnotists, in that he did not think that what he did not know is not worth knowing. It is impossible to read any of his writings and not feel that he is transparently honest and straightforward, and that he therefore expects what he says to be believed. He tells us that what he relates "may be taken as correct, otherwise healthy senses, a plain, direct understanding, careful observation, long experience, and every precaution against deception are so many snares, and one might as well be a polypus as a human being." He says:-
"When one person is made the exclusive object of another's attention for certain lengths of time, surprising effects have ensued, which are now called the mesmeric phenomena. I can only imagine this to be the effect of an active upon a passive nervous system; the passive nerves and brain being invaded and occupied by the active, will-impelled nervous fluid of the agent."
Again:-
 	"From all I have seen, I cannot but believe that there is an influence of some kind that passes from one person to another, when one of the two is mesmerised in the way I have described; that, in fact, there is a virtual transfusion of some vital agent from one body to the other."
Of this vital or nervous energy, he says:-
"The mesmeriser can not only saturate the system of the patient, generally, with his own nervous fluid, but when his patient becomes very considerably under his influence can induce local determinations of the nervous energy to various parts, so as to place them, for the time, beyond the patient's volition, even while he retains his general consciousness. This will perhaps explain the phenomenon of local rigidity, and the insensibility of individual members of the body when the rest of the system is unaffected."
Like a great many magnetisers of every epoch, Esdaile was inclined to adopt an electrical explanation of the phenomena. He said:-
"In the actual state of science, we are entitled to say that a continual electro-magnetic action is going on in our organs by the contact of the arterial blood with its containing tissues-by its transfusion into venous blood which returns again to the lungs to combine with the oxygen of the air. We know that two different substances cannot come into contact without electricity being evolved, and that all chemical actions, whether analysis or synthesis, set at liberty a certain portion of electric fluid. If the electric fish can secrete electricity, and project it in the direction desired by its will, why should not men possess a modification of the same power? "
At all events he discards both imagination and fascination as inadequate to explain the effects produced by his method:-
"From the circumstances attending my first case, all my subsequent proceedings were determined by the conviction that the mesmeric influence, as it came under my observation, was a physical power, exerted by one animal over another, in certain circumstances and conditions of their respective systems; and I should as soon adopt the diabolical theory as a satisfactory solution of the problem, as attempt to account by the action of the imagination for what I have seen and done. It has been related that all my patients were mesmerised with their eyes closed, lying in bed, in a dark room, and that it was considered desirable that the patient should be totally ignorant of what was intended to be done; and I even stipulated with the mesmeric committee that the patients brought before them should be kept in as profound ignorance of our intentions as possible."159
Esdaile seems not to have had any of that kind of curiosity which prompts some eminent physiologists to fun red hot needles into monkeys' brains to see what they will do, and other eminent physiologists to cut down upon guinea-pigs' hearts to see how soon they will stop beating, and who call that kind of thing "science"; but he was not devoid of curiosity of a more philosophical kind; and he quotes, with approval, Lord Bacon's opinion:-
"The men who have looked deeply into the hidden nature of things, the transmissions from one body to another, and the magnetic forces, have agreed that the human mind can be placed in communication with other minds, and transmit them impressions.
But he was too busy, and had too high an opinion of the importance of Mesmerism to mankind as a healing agent, to pursue the subject as a great discovery needing scientific investigation. He says:-
"As I never have attempted, and never will attempt to Mesmerise people in health, I cannot speak from my own experience as to their mesmeric sensibility."
And again:-
"The practical rule is, never to mesmerise anyone except for medical purposes, and not to do more than is necessary for the cure of disease. If this is acted up to, I am not aware that Mesmerism has any dangers whatever."
Of the dangers of Mesmerism Esdaile says comparative little for a medical man; for we generally find a whole chapter on "The Dangers of Hypnotism or Mesmerism" in the works on the subject by medical men, a chapter which is apparently intended to act as a sign-board to warn off lay trespassers on their domain.160 Of one possible accident, he says:-
"Sometimes it happens that the subjects on being awakened open their eyes, and at the same moment recover all their faculties; but it is seen that the pupil is insensible to light; this they also become aware of; they know that their eyes are open, and that they ought to see, but do not. The thought fills them with horror, and with a fearful cry, they bury their faces in their hands, like persons struck blind by lightning; but this soon passes off, and the retina recovers its sensibility by a little rubbing of the eye."
The danger here lies in the shock to the patient, which Esdaile considered the real inconvenience of this accident, and mesmerised subjects are liable to shock in other ways. The danger of shock, together with that of the “mesmeric disease" or falling spontaneously into the mesmeric state, are the only dangers which he seems to have recognised. 
How Esdaile used gaze 
Although Esdaile used "gazing" finding it to have a powerful mesmeric effect, this was neither the "fascination" of the modern hypnotist, nor the "fixing" of the eye of other mesmerists, for the subject did not return his gaze. He tried a great many experiments to find out at what distance the passes and gazing would affect his subjects. He found marked effects up to a distance of 90 or 100 feet in the case of the passes; but he does not seem to think that gazing acts so well at such long distances; he, however, was shortsighted, which may have made some difference. He says:”The experiments have been so numerous and unexceptionable, that I must consider the transmission of the mesmeric fluid through a large body of air to be incontestably proved." He believed that since air is permeable, the permeability of walls and other substances is to be expected. "In coming to this conclusion," he again says," I rely on first trials." 
One of his experiments, for example, was with Janoo, a prisoner who had a cataract in each eye, and could barely distinguish light from darkness. He mesmerised Janoo in ten minutes, he not understanding what was being done.
Next day he mesmerised him through a window while he was eating his dinner, suspecting nothing. On the following day he got Janoo to lie down with his face to the wall, and employed one of his assistants to engage him in conversation while he went to the other side of the wall and mesmerized him through it. After two ineffectual trials of a few minutes each, Janoo, who suspected nothing, fell into the mesmeric sleep. After this he mesmerised him in five minutes at a distance of thirty yards. By that time Janoo had become sufficiently accustomed to the influence of Mesmerism to be tried with mesmerized water, and Esdaile sent some of it to him by the attendant who usually took him medicine, and who gave it to him as if it were an ordinary dose. In two minutes he was deeply entranced. A peculiarity of Mesmerism in Janoo's case was that when the effect was produced he fell down suddenly, as if shot. Esdaile tried experiments to find out whether the "fluid" would affect material substances; for instance, whether it could be deposited upon them, as many magnetisers thought it could. He found that he could in this way paralyse subjects who had no knowledge of what he had done; for example:- 
"I have requested visitors at the hospital to choose any tile in the floor upon which they wished a patient, who was out of doors at the time,   to  be  fixed. I then pressed my hand  upon the selected square tile and breathed upon it, leaving my visitors to catch  their  man in  their  own way; and they had generally to send for me to relieve the man from the trap."
Mesmerism known to the Faquirs of India

Esdaile was not a little surprised to find that Mesmerism, although new to the mass of the people of India, was known to, and practised by, their "holy men," by whom it was intimately associated with religion. He says:-
"’Dr. Davidson, late resident at Jaypore in Upper India, visiting the mesmeric hospital in Calcutta, and seeing the native mesmerisers stroking and breathing upon the patients, said, ’I now understand what the Jar-phoonk of Upper India is; it is nothing but Mesmerism.' Being requested to explain himself, he continued,  ‘Many of my people, after I had tried to cure them of their different complaints in vain, used to ask leave of absence for several weeks, in order to be treated by the ]adoo-walla, and  to  my  great  surprise  they   often returned  to  me  quite cured  in  a  short  time;   and  in  reply  to  my  enquiries  as  to  how they  had  been  treated,  they  all  said  that  they  had  gone through a  process  called  Jar-phoonk;  the  meaning  of  which  I  could  never make   out. But I see it now before me, in the continuous stroking and breathing of your mesmerisers. Jarna means to stroke in Hindoostanee, and phoonkna to breathe, which very exactly describes your mesmeric process.'"
Esdaile also quotes from the  “Zoist" the curious experience of Colonel Bagnold, with which my notice of this great mesmeriser  must  end:-
"A poor young Hindoo female had fallen into a miserable state of health, the effects of great privation during the previous great famine, was epileptic, and subject to occasional fits of insanity. A ‘vergraggey' — mendicant devotee—offered to undertake her cure by performing a religious ceremony, or 'mundur'; and as the family lived in the same building with me and my military detachment, and had no objection to my being present, I attended. The man commenced with the usual Hindoo offerings, such as burning frankincense, breaking a cocoa-nut, and invoking some god, particularly Seetaram, and then seated the woman on the ground with her back and head against the wall, and took from his long matted hair a string of large sandal-wood beads, which he held up before her eyes and directed her to look at; then made passes with it from her head downwards, occasionally stopping to breathe upon or lay his hands upon her chest. She soon became drowsy, and appeared to sleep, when a handful of wood ashes were called for, waved over her head, thrown in the air, and the charm was pronounced complete. He then retired to a little distance and sat counting his beads, but with his eyes attentively fixed on her, and muttering as if in prayer. In about half an hour he started up, snapped his fingers, called out loudly ‘Seetaram!' which was loudly responded to by the Hindoos present, took his patient by the hand and told her to go about her family work. To the astonishment of her family, and all present, she obeyed, walked direct to the hand-mill and began grinding corn for the evening meal-a work I am certain she had been incapable of performing for months. Looking upon this as mere priestly deceptions, I declined being present at any future visits. However, her mother, her brother, and several men of the detachment assured me afterwards that the man not only put her asleep whenever he came, but made her speak during that sleep, described her disease, and what would cure it. I laughed at the poor people as fools, and abused the man as a knave. But his mild, good-humoured rebuke is often now present to my mind. 'Youth, the hair on your chin is incomplete; by the time it is like mine you will think differently of me.' The woman recovered, and rapidly."

With Esdaile, pure Mesmerism of the school of de Puysegur, as modified by Dupotet and Lafontaine, may be said to have reached a very high point. 
Dr. Esdaile's remarkable works are not the only records of capital operations performed without pain to the patient with the help of mesmerism. A paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London, in 1842, and published as an independent pamphlet, gives full details concerning a case in which Mr. Ward, a surgeon attached to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, had, about that time, amputated a man's leg above the knee while he, the patient, remained completely unconscious of the operation in a mesmeric sleep, put upon him by the influence of Mr. Topham, a barrister interested in the practice of Mesmer.
In France magnetism was developed further than in England.
After Dupotet, the Durvilles (Hector, Gaston, André),  continued this school and merged it with the findings of Reichenbach concerning polarities. This merging although interesting, was criticized by others161. 
In any case it continues until today such as in modern biomagnetism which has nevertheless detached itself even more from classical hypnotic techniques. 

Other branches
Already in Esdaile's time several other forms of Animal Magnetism were in the field, which seemed to throw doubt on the older theories by introducing novel methods which gave rise to new and puzzling phenomena. 
Among these new methods were those of Braid, Fahnstock and Sunderland, all of which are more nearly allied to Animal Magnetism than to Modern Hypnotism, and these systems I shall now proceed to describe, Electro-biology distinctly belongs also to the same group although it, is acknowledged by hypnotists themselves to have been instead the immediate progenitor of Modern Hypnotism.
 

