What is fascination? If we desire to appropriate the power inherent in the eye, we have to actively employ it and draw close to quantistic physics, which teaches us precisely that “the observer influences the observed”. Magnetic gaze, hypnotic gaze, or fascination are exactly this.
Fascination is able to confer a scientific basis on the otherwise inexplicable therapeutic ability possessed by several healers.
These techniques seemed to be lost, but they have still become avalaible. The main book of reference is “The magnetic gaze” of dr. Paret.  Hundreds of people have learnt in his seminars “modern fascination”.
The original source is in the odd encounter of dr. Paret and Max Tira with “the last of the fascinators”: Virgilio T. , who lived in a state of deliberate obscurity in the northern part of Italy. The first one to meet Virgilio was actually Max, who, having approached him in order to seek information on what hypnotism was, received a very practical reply to his inquiry.
Virgilio T., was in a shop and asked those who were present whether they agreed to take part in an experiment. After he firmly fixed his gaze on one of the customers, who had moreover assumed a somewhat defiant look. His defiant posturing only lasted for a very short period. Within a few seconds, in fact, that customer took on a livid appearance.
Virgilio told him that the cigarette was bad. The customer thus addressed began to cough so much that Virgilio was forced to slap him in the face a few times in order to bring him back to his senses.
When it came to the second customer, he did not even utter a single word to him. He fixed him closely, and this other customer’s look turned pallid and diaphanous as if it was made of wax. At that point, Virgilio carried out a facetious and telepathic probative exercise: Faced with the question on what his name was, such customer answered by mentioning a woman’s name which had not even been verbally suggested (to him by Virgilio), only through the power of thought. Virgilio thereupon woke him up.
Moved by his curiosity, Max and dr. Paret took to Virgilio a number of their friends, and witnessed similar events on several other occasions.
Having intuitively realized that recourse to such technique might have stretched even beyond what they had been witnesses to, and that this power might be used for the additional purpose of making people feel better, dr. Paret and dr. Tira resolved on becoming Virgilio’s students and intimate associates, to whom he could have confided his secrets. In order to attain such power, what is needed is a disciplined work upon one’s own self, which is also grounded on a series of techniques and exercises encompassing self-control as well as self-development and self-improvement.
Worthy of mention is also the late Prof. Erminio from Pisa. 
Prof. Erminio di Pisa was accustomed to assiduously cure with fascination dozens of people on a weekly basis, within his study, as part of his regular professional activity. Most of these persons would get cured in a single session lasting ten seconds or so. 
Even those who were most amenable to recurrent relapses, needed no more than 2 to 3 sessions before the beneficial effects of fascination accomplished through the look embedded themselves firmly in their organisms. Prof. Erminio was a person marked by a forceful personality. It is thus from him that dr Paret learnt how to employ this art for healing purposes. Part of this technique is explained in the free course that can be obtained  on our site or writing also an email to: mesmerismus_en – at - getresponse. com.
