Having a magnetic gaze or to «fascinate» bears the connotation of “producing a spellbinding effect or enchanting through one’s look”. 
Attractive and hypnotic charm, according to the ancient way of looking at things, is in fact “a far-reaching power that is exercised by a look over another look, one charged with such a force that whoever was subjected to it was unable to extricate his self from it, and was accordingly compelled to be fascinated by it”.
Fascination is additionally able to confer a scientific basis on the otherwise inexplicable thereapeutic ability possessed by several healers.


Having a magnetic gaze or to «fascinate» bears the connotation of “producing a spellbinding effect or enchanting through one’s look”. 
Attractive and hypnotic charm, according to the ancient way of looking at things, is in fact “a far-reaching power that is exercised by a look over another look, one charged with such a force that whoever was subjected to it was unable to extricate his self from it, and was accordingly compelled to be fascinated by it”.
For modern man, the eye is a mere passive organ. If we, however, desire to appropriate the power inherent in the eye, we have to actively employ it and draw close to quantistic physics, which
teaches us precisely that “the observer influences the observed”. Magnetic gaze, hypnotic gaze, or fascination are exactly this.
Fascination is additionally able to confer a scientific basis on the otherwise inexplicable thereapeutic ability possessed by several healers.
These techniques seemed to be lost, but they have still become avalaible in modern times. The main book of reference is “The magnetic gaze” of dr. Paret that clearly explains the basics of this technique. 
Hundreds of people have learnt in his seminars “modern fascination”.
The original sources of modern techniques on the subject is in the odd encounter of dr. Paret and Max Tira with “the last of the fascinators”: Virgilio T. , who lived in a state of deliberate obscurity by the alleys of Piedmont in the northern part of Italy. Virgilio was the last custodian of one part of the secrets of this most ancient school.
During a series of subsequent meetings, spread over a period in excess of twenty years, he gradually introduced them to the strange and arcane power of the gaze, and passed onto them increasingly more mysterious and secret exercises.
In the book “the magnetic gaze” we learn that the first one to meet Virgilio was actually Max, who, having approached him in order to seek information on what hypnotism was, received a very practical reply to his inquiry.
Virgilio T., who at that stage worked as a barber, asked those who were present at the barber’s shop whether they agreed to take part in an experiment. Once he received a positive reply to his said request, he closed the door of the shop and firmly fized his gaze on one of the customers, who had moreover assumed a somewhat defiant look. His defiant posturing only lasted for a very short period. Within a few seconds, in fact, that customer took on a livid appearance.
Virgilio told him that the cigarette was bad. The customer thus addressed began to cough so much that Virgilio was forced to slap him in the face a few times in order to bring him back to his senses.
When it came to the second customer, he did not even utter a single word to him. He fixed him closely, and this other customer’s look turned pallid and diaphanous as if it was made of wax. At that point, Virgilio carried out a facetious probative exercise: Faced with the question on what his name was, such
customer answered by mentioning a woman’s name which had not even been verbally suggested (to him by Virgilio), only through the power of thought. Virgilio thereupon woke him up.
Moved by his curiosity, Max took to Virgilio a number of his friends, and witnessed similar events on several other occasions.
Having intuitively realized that recourse to such technique might have stretched even beyond what they had been witnesses to, and that this power might be used for the additional purpose of making people feel better, dr. Paret and dr. Tira resolved on becoming Virgilio’s students and intimate associates, to whom he could have confided his secrets. They then realized that, in order to attain such power, what is needed is a disciplined work upon one’s own self, which is also grounded on a series of techniques and exercises encompassing self-control as well as self-development and self-improvement.
Virgilio is not, however, the only exponent of such school. Wothy of mention is the 
the late Prof. Erminio from Pisa. He used to refer to fascination with magnetic gaze by the term of “instantaneous hypnosis”.  Prof. Erminio di Pisa was accustomed to assiduously cure dozens of people on a weekly basis, within his study, as part of his regular professional activity. Most of these persons would get cured in a single session lasting ten seconds or so. Even those who were
most amenable to recurrent relapses, needed no more than 2 to 3 sessions before the beneficial effects of fascination accomplished through the look embedded themselves firmly in their organisms. Prof. Erminio was a person marked by a forceful personality. In his work methodology, as was the case
with the ancient people, he always strove to be in a state of balance with the universal harmony, which he used to discern as a result of his astrological studies.
It is thus from him that dr Paret learnt how to employ this art for healing purposes. Part of this technique is explained in the free course on the site www.mesmerismus.info that can be obtained writing also an email to mesmerismus_en – at - getresponse.com.
